found keys: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]
missing: []

=== FULL TEXT ===
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.
1
The following text is from Anita Desai’s 2011 novella
Translator Translated. While working on her
translation of a novel written in Odia (a language of
India) into English, the narrator looks out her
window at night to clear her mind.
I tried to distract myself with these sights of the
ordinary world, but in my mind it was the lines I
had been translating and the lines that I had
been writing that remained in the forefront. I
longed for sleep to obliterate them but it eluded
me. Perhaps everything would be normal again
once I had sent off the manuscript, I thought,
and looked forward to <u>completing</u>he work.
©2011 by Anita Desai
As used in the text, what does the word “completing”
most nearly mean?
A)Destroying
B)Finishing
C)Advertising
D)Rejecting
2
Predatory animals differ widely in how they
blank
food for their young. Some leave dead prey
nearby for their young to consume, some bring live
prey to their young, and some feed their young
directly from their own mouths.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)avoid
B)guess
C)provide
D)describe

3
Nigerian American author Teju Cole’s blankhis
two passions—photography and the written
word—culminates in his 2017 book, Blind Spot,
which evocatively combines his original photographs
from his travels with his poetic prose.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)indifference to
B)enthusiasm for
C)concern about
D)surprise at
4
Artist Marilyn Dingle’s intricate, coiled baskets are
blank
sweetgrass and palmetto palm. Following a
Gullah technique that originated in West Africa,
Dingle skillfully winds a thin palm frond around a
bunch of sweetgrass with the help of a “sewing bone”
to create the basket’s signature look that no factory
can reproduce.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)indicated by
B)handmade from
C)represented by
D)collected with
5
Beginning in the 1950s, Navajo Nation legislator
Annie Dodge Wauneka continuously worked to
promote public health; this blank
effort involved
traveling throughout the vast Navajo homeland
and writing a medical dictionary for speakers of
Diné bizaad, the Navajo language.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)impartial
B)offhand
C)persistent
D)mandatory
6
Oral histories—whether they consist of interviews
or recordings of songs and stories—can offer
researchers a rich view of people’s everyday
experiences. For her book about coal mining
communities in Kentucky during the twentieth
century, Karida Brown therefore relied in part on
interviews with coal miners and their families. St
art referenced content: By doing so, she gained
valuable insights into her subjects’ day-to-day lives. End referenced content
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A)It provides a little-known geographical fact
about Kentucky.
B)It argues that Karida Brown is an expert on
United States politics.
C)It presents a major historical event that took
place in the twentieth century.
D)It describes how Karida Brown benefited from
incorporating oral history in her book.

7
The following text is from Georgia Douglas
Johnson’s 1922 poem “Benediction.”
Go forth, my son,
Winged by my heart’s desire!
Great reaches, yet unknown,
Await
For your possession.
I may not, if I would,
Retrace the way with you,
My pilgrimage is through,
But life is calling you!
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A)To express hope that a child will have the same
accomplishments as his parent did
B)To suggest that raising a child involves many
struggles
C)To warn a child that he will face many challenges
throughout his life
D)To encourage a child to embrace the experiences
life will offer
8
The following text is from Edith Wharton’s 1905
novel The House of Mirth. Lily Bart and a companion
are walking through a park.
Lily had no real intimacy with nature, but she
had a passion for the appropriate and could be
keenly sensitive to a scene which was the fitting
background of her own sensations. Sta
rt referenced content: The landscape ou
tspread below her seemed an enlargement of her
present mood, and she found something of herself
in its calmness, its breadth, its long free reaches. End referenced contentOn the nearer slopes the
sugar-maples wavered like pyres of light; lower
down was a massing of grey orchards, and here
and there the lingering green of an oak-grove.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A)It creates a detailed image of the physical setting
of the scene.
B)It establishes that a character is experiencing an
internal conflict.
C)It makes an assertion that the next sentence then
expands on.
D)It illustrates an idea that is introduced in the
previous sentence.

9
<u>Individual elephants
and Arctic herbivores such as caribou tend to h
ave fixed geographic ranges throughout their lifetimes,</u>which had prompted
some researchers to speculate that the Arctic woolly
mammoth, an extinct elephantid, might have
exhibited similar behavior. Mammoth tusks grew in
sequential layers, incorporating ingested minerals
and organics, and so each ivory stratum reflects the
ratio of strontium isotopes (87Sr/86Sr) in the local
environment; thus, the sequence of strata shows
where the animal roamed during life. Recent analysis
of the strontium ratios in the strata of one Arctic
woolly mammoth tusk in relation to the geographic
distribution of strontium ratios in the environment
shows the animal’s range begin to expand as it
reached sexual maturity, only to contract again in its
final 1.5 years.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined statement in the text as a whole?
A)It discusses a characteristic shared by certain
animals in order to explain why researchers
raised a possibility that turned out not to be
supported by data described later in the text.
B)It illustrates a pattern of behavior among certain
animals in order to present a theory about
exceptions to that pattern that is weakened by a
finding described later in the text.
C)It describes a similarity in the behavior of certain
animals in order to show why a method
described later in the text did not reveal whether
another animal also showed that behavior.
D)It introduces a trait shared by certain animals in
order to contextualize a hypothesis about the
origin of that trait that is advanced later in the
text.
10
In the 1960s, Gloria Richardson led a movement to
promote racial equality. Her involvement in this
effort was inspired by her daughter, Donna
Richardson. In 1961, Donna joined protests
organized by the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee in Cambridge, Maryland. Following her
daughter, Gloria joined these protests too. Gloria
soon became the cochair of the Cambridge
Nonviolent Action Committee. She was also the
leader of what became known as the Cambridge
movement.
According to the text, what did Gloria Richardson
lead?
A)The Cambridge movement
B)Her daughter Donna’s high school
C)Protests to support environmental protections
D)A new business in Cambridge, Maryland

11
The following text is from Jane Austen’s 1811 novel
Sense and Sensibility. Elinor lives with her younger
sisters and her mother, Mrs. Dashwood.
Elinor, this eldest daughter, whose advice was so
effectual, possessed a strength of understanding,
and coolness of judgment, which qualified her,
though only nineteen, to be the counsellor of her
mother, and enabled her frequently to
counteract, to the advantage of them all, that
eagerness of mind in Mrs. Dashwood which
must generally have led to imprudence. She had
an excellent heart;—her disposition was
affectionate, and her feelings were strong; but
she knew how to govern them: it was a
knowledge which her mother had yet to learn;
and which one of her sisters had resolved never
to be taught.
According to the text, what is true about Elinor?
A)Elinor often argues with her mother but fails to
change her mind.
B)Elinor can be overly sensitive with regard to
family matters.
C)Elinor thinks her mother is a bad role model.
D)Elinor is remarkably mature for her age.
12
Culinary anthropologist Vertamae Smart-Grosvenor
may be known for her decades of work in national
public television and radio, but her book Vibration
Cooking: or, the Travel Notes of a Geechee Girlis
likely her most influential project. The 1970 book,
whose title refers to Smart-Grosvenor’s roots in the
Low Country of South Carolina, was unusual for its
time. It combined memoir, recipes, travel writing,
and social commentary and challenged notions about
conventions of food and cooking. Long admired
by many, the book and its author have shaped
contemporary approaches to writing about cuisine.
Which choice best describes the main idea of the
text?
A)Smart-Grosvenor’s unconventional book
Vibration Cooking: or, the Travel Notes of a
Geechee Girlis an important contribution to
food writing.
B)Smart-Grosvenor held many different positions
over her life, including reporter and food writer.
C)Smart-Grosvenor’s groundbreaking book
Vibration Cooking: or, the Travel Notes of a
Geechee Girldidn’t receive the praise it deserved
when it was first published in 1970.
D)Smart-Grosvenor was a talented chef whose
work inspired many people to start cooking for
themselves.

13
The following text is adapted from Charles W.
Chesnutt’s 1901 novel The Marrow of Tradition.
Mrs. Ochiltree was a woman of strong
individuality, whose comments upon her
acquaintance[s], present or absent, were marked
by a frankness at times no less than startling.
This characteristic caused her to be more or less
avoided. Mrs. Ochiltree was aware of this
sentiment on the part of her acquaintance[s],
and rather exulted in it.
Based on the text, what is true about Mrs. Ochiltree’s
acquaintances?
A)They try to refrain from discussing topics that
would upset Mrs. Ochiltree.
B)They are unable to spend as much time with
Mrs. Ochiltree as she would like.
C)They are too preoccupied with their own
concerns to speak with Mrs. Ochiltree.
D)They are likely offended by what Mrs. Ochiltree
has said about them.
14
“Mrs. Spring Fragrance” is a 1912 short story by
Sui Sin Far. In the story, Mrs. Spring Fragrance, a
Chinese immigrant living in Seattle, is traveling in
California. In letters to her husband and friend, she
demonstrates her concern for what’s happening at
her home in Seattle while she is away: blank
Which quotation from Mrs. Spring Fragrance’s
letters most effectively illustrates the claim?
A)“My honorable cousin is preparing for the Fifth
Moon Festival, and wishes me to compound for
the occasion some American ‘fudge,’ for which
delectable sweet, made by my clumsy hands, you
have sometimes shown a slight prejudice.”
B)“Next week I accompany Ah Oi to the beauteous
town of San José. There will we be met by the
son of the Illustrious Teacher.”
C)“Forget not to care for the cat, the birds, and the
flowers. Do not eat too quickly nor fan too
vigorously now that the weather is warming.”
D)“I am enjoying a most agreeable visit, and
American friends, as also our own, strive
benevolently for the accomplishment of my
pleasure.”

15
When digging for clams, their primary food, sea
otters damage the roots of eelgrass plants growing
on the seafloor. Near Vancouver Island in Canada,
the otter population is large and well established,
yet the eelgrass meadows are healthier than those
found elsewhere off Canada’s coast. To explain
this, conservation scientist Erin Foster and
colleagues compared the Vancouver Island
meadows to meadows where otters are absent or
were reintroduced only recently. Finding that the
Vancouver Island meadows have a more diverse gene
pool than the others do, Foster hypothesized that
damage to eelgrass roots increases the plant’s rate of
sexual reproduction; this, in turn, boosts genetic
diversity, which benefits the meadows’ health overall.
Which finding, if true, would most directly
undermine Foster’s hypothesis?
A)At some sites in the study, eelgrass meadows are
found near otter populations that are small and
have only recently been reintroduced.
B)At several sites not included in the study, there
are large, well-established sea otter populations
but no eelgrass meadows.
C)At several sites not included in the study,
eelgrass meadows’ health correlates negatively
with the length of residence and size of otter
populations.
D)At some sites in the study, the health of plants
unrelated to eelgrass correlates negatively with
the length of residence and size of otter
populations.
16
In the twentieth century, ethnographers made a
concerted effort to collect Mexican American
folklore, but they did not always agree about that
folklore’s origins. Scholars such as Aurelio Espinosa
claimed that Mexican American folklore derived
largely from the folklore of Spain, which ruled
Mexico and what is now the southwestern United
States from the sixteenth to early nineteenth
centuries. Scholars such as Américo Paredes, by
contrast, argued that while some Spanish influence is
undeniable, Mexican American folklore is mainly the
product of the ongoing interactions of various
cultures in Mexico and the United States.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
Paredes’s argument?
A)The folklore that the ethnographers collected
included several songs written in the form of a
décima, a type of poem originating in late
sixteenth-century Spain.
B)Much of the folklore that the ethnographers
collected had similar elements from region to
region.
C)Most of the folklore that the ethnographers
collected was previously unknown to scholars.
D)Most of the folklore that the ethnographers
collected consisted of corridos—ballads about
history and social life—of a clearly recent origin.

17
Among social animals that care for their young,
such as chickens, macaque monkeys, and humans,
newborns appear to show an innate attraction to
faces and face-like stimuli. Elisabetta Versace and
her colleagues used an image of three black dots
arranged in the shape of eyes and a nose or mouth
to test whether this trait also occurs in Testudo
tortoises, which live alone and do not engage in
parental care. They found that tortoise hatchlings
showed a significant preference for the image,
suggesting that blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)face-like stimuli are likely perceived as harmless
by newborns of social species that practice
parental care but as threatening by newborns of
solitary species without parental care.
B)researchers should not assume that an innate
attraction to face-like stimuli is necessarily an
adaptation related to social interaction or
parental care.
C)researchers can assume that the attraction to
face-like stimuli that is seen in social species that
practice parental care is learned rather than
innate.
D)newly hatched Testudo tortoises show a stronger
preference for face-like stimuli than adult
Testudo tortoises do.
18
Aptamers—synthetic DNA or RNA molecules that
bind to target molecules—can be used to test for
foodborne bacterial pathogens, though their
specificity (the probability of returning a negative
result in the absence of the focal pathogen) in
real-world foods has been unclear. Sandeep
Somvanshi et al. fabricated test paper incorporating
aptamers targeting strain O157:H7 of the bacteria
Escherichia coli; the paper shifts from pink to purple
as the aptamers bind to target molecules. Somvanshi
et al. tested the paper in store-bought pear juice they
treated with E. coliO157:H7, other strains of E. coli,
or other bacteria species. Following exposure, the
paper from the O157:H7 test was purple while
papers from the other tests were pink, suggesting
that blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)aptamer-based tests in real-world foods are more
likely to show a high degree of specificity if the
focal pathogen is E. coliO157:H7 than if the
focal pathogen is another strain of E. colior
another species.
B)uncertainty about the specificity of
aptamer-based tests for pathogens in real-world
foods may be due to the similarity between
E. coliO157:H7 and other E. colistrains.
C)the specificity of the tests in a real-world food
was unaffected by the aptamers’ tendency to
bind to different strains of E. coli.
D)the aptamers successfully bound toE. coli
O157:H7 and the tests displayed a high degree
of specificity in a real-world food.

19
British scientists James Watson and Francis Crick
won the Nobel Prize in part for their 1953 paper
announcing the double helix structure of DNA, but it
is misleading to say that Watson and Crick
discovered the double helix. blank
findings were
based on a famous X-ray image of DNA fibers,
“Photo 51,” developed by X-ray crystallographer
Rosalind Franklin and her graduate student
Raymond Gosling.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)They’re
B)It’s
C)Their
D)Its
20
In the historical novel The Surrender Tree, Cuban
American author Margarita Engle uses poetry rather
than prose blank
the true story of Cuban folk
hero Rosa La Bayamesa.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)tells
B)told
C)is telling
D)to tell
21
Interest in mechanotransduction, the mechanism by
which cells sense and convert mechanical stimuli
into biochemical signals, is expanding because of
innovative work by biomedical scientists—many
of whom, like neuroscience and biophysics expert
Elba Serrano, blank
this mechanism to better
understand how the body’s neurological and
biomechanical systems interact.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)is studying
B)has studied
C)study
D)studies
22
In crafting her fantasy fiction, Nigerian-born British
author Helen Oyeyemi has drawn inspiration from
the classic nineteenth-century fairy tales of the
Brothers Grimm. Her 2014 novel Boy, Snow, Bird,
for instance, is a complex retelling of the story of
Snow White, while her 2019 novel blankoffers a
delicious twist on the classic tale of Hansel and
Gretel.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)Gingerbread—
B)Gingerbread,
C)Gingerbread
D)Gingerbread:

23
Sociologist Todd Gitlin co-opted the term
“recombinant,” normally used in reference to genetic
engineering, to describe serialized television shows of
the 1980s. Gitlin’s use of the term referenced TV
studios’ practice of repackaging successful narrative
formulas as new blank
even shows that varied
only slightly from other shows still attracted sizeable
audiences.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)content, in that era
B)content; in that era,
C)content in that era,
D)content, in that era,
24
When external forces are applied to common glass
made from silicates, energy builds up around
minuscule defects in the material, resulting in
fractures. Recently, engineer Erkka Frankberg of
Tampere University in Finland used the chemical
blankto make a glassy solid that can withstand
higher strain than silicate glass can before fracturing.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)compound, aluminum oxide
B)compound aluminum oxide,
C)compound, aluminum oxide,
D)compound aluminum oxide
25
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries,
automobiles were commonly referred to as horseless
carriages after the older technology they still
resembled. Known as the Brass Era, this period in
automotive design is remembered for its grandeur
and artistry, its vehicles blank
by collectors for
their ornate detailing and gleaming brass fittings.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)are highly prized
B)had been highly prized
C)highly prized
D)were highly prized
26
With the development of new technologies that
use natural resources more efficiently, the overall
consumption of those resources might be expected
to decrease. Economists have observed that
improvements in efficiency often correlate negatively
with resource blank
efficiency gains, lowering the
cost of use, may increase demand to the extent that
resource consumption ultimately rises.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)conservation, though,
B)conservation; though
C)conservation, though;
D)conservation, though

27
Before California’s 1911 election to approve a
proposition granting women the right to vote,
activists across the state sold tea to promote the cause
of suffrage. In San Francisco, the Woman’s Suffrage
Party sold Equality Tea at local fairs. blank
in
Los Angeles, activist Nancy Tuttle Craig, who ran
one of California’s largest grocery store firms,
distributed Votes for Women Tea.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)For example,
B)To conclude,
C)Similarly,
D)In other words,
28
Earth’s auroras—colorful displays of light seen above
the northern and southern poles—result, broadly
speaking, from the Sun’s activity. blank
the Sun
releases charged particles that are captured by Earth’s
magnetic field and channeled toward the poles.
These particles then collide with atoms in the
atmosphere, causing the atoms to emit auroral light.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Specifically,
B)Similarly,
C)Nevertheless,
D)Hence,
29
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•The Seikan Tunnel is a rail tunnel in Japan.
•It connects the island of Honshu to the island of
Hokkaido.
•It is roughly 33 miles long.
•The Channel Tunnel is a rail tunnel in Europe.
•It connects Folkestone, England, to Coquelles,
France.
•It is about 31 miles long.
The student wants to compare the lengths of the two
rail tunnels. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)Some of the world’s rail tunnels, including one
tunnel that extends from Folkestone, England, to
Coquelles, France, are longer than 30 miles.
B)The Seikan Tunnel is roughly 33 miles long,
while the slightly shorter Channel Tunnel is
about 31 miles long.
C)The Seikan Tunnel, which is roughly 33 miles
long, connects the Japanese islands of Honshu
and Hokkaido.
D)Both the Seikan Tunnel, which is located in
Japan, and the Channel Tunnel, which is located
in Europe, are examples of rail tunnels.

30
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Pinnipeds, which include seals, sea lions, and
walruses, live in and around water.
•Pinnipeds are descended not from sea animals but
from four-legged, land-dwelling carnivores.
•Canadian paleobiologist Natalia Rybczynski
recently found a fossil with four legs, webbed toes,
and the skull and teeth of a seal.
•Rybczynski refers to her rare find as a “transitional
fossil.”
•The fossil illustrates an early stage in the evolution
of pinnipeds from their land-dwelling ancestors.
The student wants to emphasize the fossil’s
significance. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)Canadian paleobiologist Natalia Rybczynski’s
fossil has the skull and teeth of a seal, which, like
sea lions and walruses, is a pinniped.
B)Pinnipeds are descended from four-legged,
land-dwelling carnivores; a fossil that resembles
both was recently found.
C)Having four legs but the skull and teeth of a seal,
the rare fossil illustrates an early stage in the
evolution of pinnipeds from their land-dwelling
ancestors.
D)A “transitional fossil” was recently found by
paleobiologist Natalia Rybczynski.
31
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Physicist Muluneh Abebe was working on a
garment suited for both warm and cold
conditions.
•He analyzed the emissivity, or ability to emit heat,
of the materials he planned to use.
•Abebe found that reflective metal fibers emitted
almost no heat and had an emissivity of 0.02.
•He found that silicon carbide fibers absorbed large
amounts of heat and had an emissivity of 0.74.
•The amount of heat a material absorbs is equal to
the amount of heat it emits.
The student wants to contrast the emissivity of
reflective metal fibers with that of silicon carbide
fibers. Which choice most effectively uses relevant
information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A)The ability of reflective metal fibers and silicon
carbide fibers to emit heat was determined by an
analysis of each material’s emissivity.
B)The amount of heat a material absorbs is equal to
the amount it emits, as evidenced in Abebe’s
analyses.
C)Though the reflective metal fibers and silicon
carbide fibers had different rates of emissivity,
Abebe planned to use both in a garment.
D)Whereas the reflective metal fibers had an
emissivity of just 0.02, the silicon carbide fibers
absorbed large amounts of heat, resulting in an
emissivity of 0.74.

32
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•In 2020, theater students at Radford and Virginia
Tech chose an interactive, online format to
present a play about woman suffrage activists.
•Their “Women and the Vote” website featured an
interactive digital drawing of a Victorian-style
house.
•Audiences were asked to focus on a room of their
choice and select from that room an artifact
related to the suffrage movement.
•One click took them to video clips, songs, artwork,
and texts associated with the artifact.
•The play was popular with audiences because the
format allowed them to control the experience.
The student wants to explain an advantage of the
“Women and the Vote” format. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes
to accomplish this goal?
A)“Women and the Vote” featured a drawing of a
Victorian-style house with several rooms, each
containing suffrage artifacts.
B)To access video clips, songs, artwork, and texts,
audiences had to first click on an artifact.
C)The “Women and the Vote” format appealed to
audiences because it allowed them to control the
experience.
D)Using an interactive format, theater students at
Radford and Virginia Tech created “Women and
the Vote,” a play about woman suffrage activists.
33
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Ducklings expend up to 62.8% less energy when
swimming in a line behind their mother than
when swimming alone.
•The physics behind this energy savings hasn’t
always been well understood.
•Naval architect Zhiming Yuan used computer
simulations to study the effect of the mother
duck’s wake.
•The study revealed that ducklings are pushed in a
forward direction by the wake’s waves.
•Yuan determined this push reduces the effect of
wave drag on the ducklings by 158%.
The student wants to present the study and its
methodology. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)A study revealed that ducklings, which expend
up to 62.8% less energy when swimming in a line
behind their mother, also experience 158% less
drag.
B)Seeking to understand how ducklings swimming
in a line behind their mother save energy,
Zhiming Yuan used computer simulations to
study the effect of the mother duck’s wake.
C)Zhiming Yuan studied the physics behind the
fact that by being pushed in a forward direction
by waves, ducklings save energy.
D)Naval architect Zhiming Yuan discovered that
ducklings are pushed in a forward direction by
the waves of their mother’s wake, reducing the
effect of drag by 158%.
STOP
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this module only.
Do not turn to any other module in the test.

No Test Material On This Page