body len=24857
=== BODY ===
Art scholars have noted that some colors seem to be
moreblank
viewers than others. For example,
people tend to find paintings featuring blues and
greens more appealing than paintings featuring
yellows and oranges.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
• confusing for
• attractive to
• corrected by
• similar to
2
Researchers and conservationists stress that
biodiversity loss due to invasive species is blank
For example, people can take simple steps such as
washing their footwear after travel to avoid
introducing potentially invasive organisms into new
environments.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
• preventable
• undeniable
• common
• concerning
3
The process of mechanically recycling plastics
is often considered blankbecause of the
environmental impact and the loss of material
quality that often occurs. But chemist Takunda
Chazovachii has helped develop a cleaner process of
chemical recycling that converts superabsorbent
polymers from diapers into a desirable reusable
adhesive.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
• resilient
• inadequate
• dynamic
• satisfactory
16
Module
2
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.

4
In the Indigenous intercropping system known as the
Three Sisters, maize, squash, and beans form an
blank
web of relations: maize provides the
structure on which the bean vines grow; the squash
vines cover the soil, discouraging competition from
weeds; and the beans aid their two “sisters” by
enriching the soil with essential nitrogen.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)indecipherable
B)ornamental
C)obscure
D)intricate
5
Within baleen whale species, some individuals
develop an accessory spleen—a seemingly
functionless formation of splenetic tissue outside
the normal spleen. Given the formation’s greater
prevalence among whales known to make deeper
dives, some researchers hypothesize that its role isn’t
blank; rather, the accessory spleen may actively
support diving mechanisms.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)replicable
B)predetermined
C)operative
D)latent
6
In 2007, computer scientist Luis von Ahn was
working on converting printed books into a digital
format. He found that some words were distorted
enough that digital scanners couldn’t recognize
them, but most humans could easily read them.
Based on that finding, von Ahn invented a simple
security test to keep automated “bots” out of
websites. The first version of the reCAPTCHA test
asked users to type one known word and one of the
many words scanners couldn’t recognize. Correct
answers proved the users were humans and added
data to the book-digitizing project.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A)To discuss von Ahn’s invention of reCAPTCHA
B)To explain how digital scanners work
C)To call attention to von Ahn’s book-digitizing
project
D)To indicate how popular reCAPTCHA is
7
The following text is adapted from Gwendolyn
Bennett’s 1926 poem “Street Lamps in Early Spring.”
Night wears a garment
All velvet soft, all violet blue...
And over her face she draws a veil
As shimmering fine as floating dew...
And here and there
In the black of her hair
The subtle hands of Night
Move slowly with their gem-starred light.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of
the text?
A)It presents alternating descriptions of night in a
rural area and in a city.
B)It sketches an image of nightfall, then an image
of sunrise.
C)It makes an extended comparison of night to a
human being.
D)It portrays how night changes from one season
of the year to the next.
17
Module
2

8
The following text is adapted from Jane Austen’s
1814 novel Mansfield Park. The speaker, Tom, is
considering staging a play at home with a group of
his friends and family.
We mean nothing but a little amusement
among ourselves, just to vary the scene, and
exercise our powers in something new. We want
no audience, no publicity. We may be trusted, I
think, in choosing some play most perfectly
unexceptionable; and I can conceive no greater
harm or danger to any of us in conversing in the
elegant written language of some respectable
author than in chattering in words of our own.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A)To offer Tom’s assurance that the play will be
inoffensive and involve only a small number of
people
B)To clarify that the play will not be performed in
the manner Tom had originally intended
C)To elaborate on the idea that the people around
Tom lack the skills to successfully stage a play
D)To assert that Tom believes the group
performing the play will be able to successfully
promote it
9
Text1
Ecologists have long wondered how thousands of
microscopic phytoplankton species can live together
near ocean surfaces competing for the same
resources. According to <u>conventional wisdom</u> , one
species should emerge after outcompeting the rest.
So why do so many species remain? Ecologists’ many
efforts to explain this phenomenon still haven’t
uncovered a satisfactory explanation.
Text 2
Ecologist Michael Behrenfeld and colleagues have
connected phytoplankton’s diversity to their
microscopic size. Because these organisms are so
tiny, they are spaced relatively far apart from each
other in ocean water and, moreover, experience that
water as a relatively dense substance. This in turn
makes it hard for them to move around and interact
with one another. Therefore, says Behrenfeld’s team,
direct competition among phytoplankton probably
happens much less than previously thought.
Based on the texts, how would Behrenfeld and
colleagues (Text 2) most likely respond to the
“conventional wisdom” discussed in Text 1?
A)By arguing that it is based on a misconception
about phytoplankton species competing with
one another
B)By asserting that it fails to recognize that routine
replenishment of ocean nutrients prevents
competition between phytoplankton species
C)By suggesting that their own findings help clarify
how phytoplankton species are able to compete
with larger organisms
D)By recommending that more ecologists focus
their research on how competition among
phytoplankton species is increased with water
density
18
Module
2

10
The following text is adapted from Sylvia Acevedo’s
2018 memoir Path to the Stars:My Journey from Girl
Scout to Rocket Scientist. The narrator is traveling by
car with her family to Mexico City. Mario and Laura
are her brother and sister.
Mario and I played games to see how many
different license plates we could spot, and Laura
liked to look for children in the back seats of the
cars we passed. We were used to the forty-five-
minute drive to El Paso and familiar with the
six-hour ride to Chihuahua, but I wondered
what the long journey to Mexico City would be
like.
©2018 by Sylvia Acevedo
According to the text, what did the narrator and
Mario do while riding in the car?
A)They read books.
B)They sang songs.
C)They went to sleep.
D)They played games.
11
In the 1700s and 1800s, European composers
experimented with volume in their musical works.
They did so by increasing the number of musicians
playing in the orchestra. For example, in some of his
operas, German composer Richard Wagner added
more horns, trombones, and tubas to the orchestra.
With more instruments playing at the same time, the
orchestra could play extremely loudly at key
moments in his operas.
According to the text, how did Richard Wagner
achieve moments of extremely high volume in his
operas?
A)By moving the performances of his operas from
outdoor stages to indoor ones
B)By increasing the number of musicians playing
horns, trombones, and tubas in the orchestra
C)By building a concert hall whose shape would
cause sounds to echo
D)By insisting that the singers undergo special
training to sing for extended periods of time
19
Module
2

12
Poetry in Classical Nahuatl, the language of the Aztec
Empire, relies on difrasismo, or a parallel noun
construction that conventionally operates as a single
metaphor. For example, the common difrasismo in
cuauhtli in ocelotl(literally, “the eagle, the jaguar”)
signifies “warrior.” The device’s function is both
formal—providing structure to lines of verse—and
ritual: semantic relations among the two nouns and
the concept they signify can be tenuous, as in the
previous example, such that difrasismos are often
only intelligible according to the conceptual
associations observed in Aztec ceremonial culture.
Which statement about the difrasismo in cuauhtli in
ocelotlis most strongly supported by the text?
A)Its metaphorical significance derives from the
semantic equivalence of the two nouns
constituting the difrasismo.
B)Its unintelligibility may cause its formal function
within a line of verse to go unnoticed by
present-day readers.
C)Its apparent obscurity can be resolved when
considered in the proper cultural context.
D)Its frequency in Classical Nahuatl poetry
confirms its intelligibility to the Aztec audience.
13
Eighteenth-century economist Adam Smith is famed
for his metaphor of the invisible hand, which he
putatively used to illustrate a robust model of how
individuals produce aggregate benefits by pursuing
their own economic interests. Note “putatively”: as
Gavin Kennedy has shown, Smith deploys this
metaphor only once in his economic writings—to
make a narrow point about the then-dominant
economic theory of mercantilism—and it was largely
ignored until some twentieth-century economists
eager to secure an intellectual pedigree for their views
elevated it to a fully-fledged paradigm.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A)Although Smith is famed for his metaphor of the
invisible hand, the metaphor was largely ignored
until economists in the twentieth century came
to realize that the metaphor was a robust model
that anticipated their own views.
B)Some twentieth-century economists gave Smith’s
metaphor of the invisible hand a significance it
does not have in Smith’s work, but it is
nevertheless a useful model of how individuals
produce aggregate benefits by pursuing their
own economic interests.
C)Smith’s metaphor of the invisible hand has been
interpreted as a model of how individuals acting
in their own interest produce aggregate benefits,
but it was intended as a subtle critique of the
economic theory of mercantilism.
D)The reputation of Smith’s metaphor of the
invisible hand is not due to the importance of the
metaphor in Smith’s work but rather to the
promotion of the metaphor by some later
economists for their own ends.
20
Module
2

14
Approximate Rates of Speech and
Information Conveyed for Five Languages
Rate of speechRate of information
(syllables
conveyed (bits
Language
per second)
per second)
Serbian
7.2
39.1
Spanish
7.7
42.0
Vietnamese
5.3
42.5
Thai
4.7
33.8
Hungarian
5.9
34.6
A group of researchers working in Europe, Asia, and
Oceania conducted a study to determine how quickly
different Eurasian languages are typically spoken
(in syllables per second) and how much information
they can effectively convey (in bits per second). They
found that, although languages vary widely in the
speed at which they are spoken, the amount of
information languages can effectively convey tends
to vary much less. Thus, they claim that two
languages with very different spoken rates can
nonetheless convey the same amount of information
in a given amount of time.
Which choice best describes data from the table that
support the researchers’ claim?
A)Among the five languages in the table, Thai and
Hungarian have the lowest rates of speech and
the lowest rates of information conveyed.
B)Vietnamese conveys information at
approximately the same rate as Spanish despite
being spoken at a slower rate.
C)Among the five languages in the table, the
language that is spoken the fastest is also the
language that conveys information the fastest.
D)Serbian and Spanish are spoken at approximately
the same rate, but Serbian conveys information
faster than Spanish does.
21
Module
2

15
Estimates of Tyrannosaurid Bite Force
Approximate bite force
Study
Year
Estimation method
(newtons)
Cost et al.
2019muscular and skeletal modeling
35,000–63,000
Gignac and Erickson
2017tooth-bone interaction analysis
8,000–34,000
Meers
2002body-mass scaling
183,000–235,000
Bates and Falkingham2012muscular and skeletal modeling
35,000–57,000
The largest tyrannosaurids—the family of carnivorous dinosaurs
that includes Tarbosaurus, Albertosaurus, and, most famously,
Tyrannosaurus rex—are thought to have had the strongest bites of any
land animals in Earth’s history. Determining the bite force of extinct
animals can be difficult, however, and paleontologists Paul Barrett and
Emily Rayfield have suggested that an estimate of dinosaur bite force
may be significantly influenced by the methodology used in generating
that estimate.
Which choice best describes data from the table that support Barrett
and Rayfield’s suggestion?
A)The study by Meers used body-mass scaling and produced the
lowest estimated maximum bite force, while the study by Cost et al.
used muscular and skeletal modeling and produced the highest
estimated maximum.
B)In their study, Gignac and Erickson used tooth-bone interaction
analysis to produce an estimated bite force range with a minimum
of 8,000 newtons and a maximum of 34,000 newtons.
C)The bite force estimates produced by Bates and Falkingham and by
Cost et al. were similar to each other, while the estimates produced
by Meers and by Gignac and Erickson each differed substantially
from any other estimate.
D)The estimated maximum bite force produced by Cost et al.
exceeded the estimated maximum produced by Bates and
Falkingham, even though both groups of researchers used the
same method to generate their estimates.
22
Module
2

16
Psychologists Dacher Keltner and Jonathan Haidt
have argued that experiencing awe—a sensation of
reverence and wonder typically brought on by
perceiving something grand or powerful—can enable
us to feel more connected to others and thereby
inspire us to act more altruistically. Keltner, along
with Paul K. Piff, Pia Dietze, and colleagues, claims
to have found evidence for this effect in a recent
study where participants were asked to either gaze up
at exceptionally tall trees in a nearby grove (reported
to be a universally awe-inspiring experience) or stare
at the exterior of a nearby, nondescript building.
After one minute, an experimenter deliberately
spilled a box of pens nearby.
Which finding from the researchers’ study, if true,
would most strongly support their claim?
A)Participants who had been looking at the trees
helped the experimenter pick up significantly
more pens than did participants who had been
looking at the building.
B)Participants who helped the experimenter pick
up the pens used a greater number of positive
words to describe the trees and the building in a
postexperiment survey than did participants who
did not help the experimenter.
C)Participants who did not help the experimenter
pick up the pens were significantly more likely to
report having experienced a feeling of awe,
regardless of whether they looked at the building
or the trees.
D)Participants who had been looking at the
building were significantly more likely to notice
that the experimenter had dropped the pens than
were participants who had been looking at the
trees.
17
The domestic sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas)
descends from a wild plant native to South America.
It also populates the Polynesian Islands, where
evidence confirms that Native Hawaiians and other
Indigenous peoples were cultivating the plant
centuries before seafaring first occurred over the
thousands of miles of ocean separating them from
South America. To explain how the sweet potato
was first introduced in Polynesia, botanist Pablo
Muñoz-Rodríguez and colleagues analyzed the DNA
of numerous varieties of the plant, concluding that
Polynesian varieties diverged from South American
ones over 100,000 years ago. Given that Polynesia
was peopled only in the last three thousand years, the
team concluded thatblank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)the cultivation of the sweet potato in Polynesia
likely predates its cultivation in South America.
B)Polynesian peoples likely acquired the sweet
potato from South American peoples only within
the last three thousand years.
C)human activity likely played no role in the
introduction of the sweet potato in Polynesia.
D)Polynesian sweet potato varieties likely descend
from a single South American variety that was
domesticated, not wild.
23
Module
2

18
The morphological novelty of echinoderms—marine
invertebrates with radial symmetry, usually starlike,
around a central point—impedes comparisons with
most other animals, in which bilateral symmetry on
an anterior-posterior (head to tail) axis through a
trunk is typical. Particularly puzzling are sea stars,
thought to have evolved a headless layout from a
known bilateral origin. Applying genomic knowledge
of Saccoglossus kowalevskiiacorn worms (close
relatives of sea stars, and thus expected to have
similar markers for corresponding anatomical
regions) to the body patterning genes of Patiria
miniatasea stars, Laurent Formery et al. observed
activity only in anterior genes across P. miniata’s
entire body and some posterior genes limited to the
edges, suggesting thatblank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)despite the greater prevalence of anterior genes
in sea stars’ genetic makeup, posterior genes
active at the body’s perimeter are primarily
responsible for the starlike layout that
distinguishes sea stars’ radial symmetry from
that of other echinoderms.
B)contrary to the belief that they evolved from
early ancestors with the bilateral form typical of
many other animals, sea stars instead originated
with an atypical body layout that was neither
bilaterally nor radially symmetrical.
C)although the two species are closely related, there
is only minimal correspondence in the genetic
markers for head, tail, and trunk region
development in P. miniatasea stars and
S. kowalevskiiacorn worms.
D)rather than undergoing changes resulting in the
eventual elimination of a head region in their
radial body plan, as previously assumed, sea
stars’ morphology evolved to completely lack a
trunk and consist primarily of a head region.
19
To survive when water is scarce, embryos
inside African turquoise killifish eggs blanka
dormant state known as diapause. In this state,
embryonic development is paused for as long as two
years—longer than the life span of an adult killifish.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)enter
B)to enter
C)having entered
D)entering
20
Formed in 1967 to foster political and economic
stability within the Asia-Pacific region, the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations was
originally made up of five members: Thailand, the
Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia. By
the end of the 1990s, the organizationblank
its
initial membership.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)has doubled
B)had doubled
C)doubles
D)will double
24
Module
2

21
After the United Kingdom began rolling out taxes
equivalent to a few cents on single-use plastic grocery
bags in 2011, plastic-bag consumption decreased by
up to ninetyblank
taxes are subject to what
economists call the “rebound effect”: as the change
became normalized, plastic-bag use started to creep
back up.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)percent, such
B)percent and such
C)percent. Such
D)percent such
22
In 1966, Emmett Ashford became the first African
American to umpire a Major League Baseball game.
His energetic gestures announcing when a player had
struck out and his habit of barreling after a hit ball to
see if it would land out of blank
transform the
traditionally solemn umpire role into a dynamic one.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)bounds helped
B)bounds, helping
C)bounds that helped
D)bounds to help
23
The forty-seven geothermal springs of Arkansas’ Hot
Springs National Park are sourced via a process
known as natural groundwater recharge, in which
rainwater percolates downward through the
earth—in this case, the porous rocks of the hills
around Hotblank
collect in a subterranean basin.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)Springs to
B)Springs: to
C)Springs—to
D)Springs, to
24
Over twenty years ago, in a landmark experiment in
the psychology of choice, professor Sheena Iyengar
set up a jam-tasting booth at a grocery store. The
number of jams available for tastingblank
some
shoppers had twenty-four different options, others
only six. Interestingly, the shoppers with fewer jams
to choose from purchased more jam.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)varied:
B)varied,
C)varied, while
D)varied while
25
Module
2

25
Nigerian author Buchi Emecheta’s celebrated literary
oeuvre includes The Joys of Motherhood, a novel
about the changing roles of women in 1950s blank
a television play about the private struggles of a
newlywed couple in Nigeria; and Head Above Water,
her autobiography.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)Lagos, A Kind of Marriage,
B)Lagos; A Kind of Marriage,
C)Lagos, A Kind of Marriage:
D)Lagos; A Kind of Marriage
26
Jetties—long, narrow structures that extend from a
landmass into the water—are often constructed to
protect coastlines from erosion. Jetties can
sometimes have the oppositeblank
obstructing
the natural flow of sand along the shore can lead to
increased erosion in some areas.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)effect, though;
B)effect, though
C)effect; though
D)effect, though,
27
The Alaska Native Language Archive (ANLA) is
known for its impressive audio collection.blank
the ANLA has more than 5,000 audio recordings of
Native Alaskan languages dating as far back as 1943.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)In fact,
B)After,
C)Regardless,
D)Instead,
28
Etched into Peru’s Nazca Desert are line drawings so
large that they can only be fully seen from high
above. Archaeologists have known of the lines since
the 1920s, when a researcher spotted some from a
nearby foothill, and they have been studying the
markings ever since.blank
archaeologists’ efforts
are aided by drones that capture high-resolution
aerial photographs of the lines.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Currently,
B)In comparison,
C)Still,
D)However,
26
Module
2

29
At two weeks old, the time their critical socialization
period begins, wolves can smell but cannot yet see or
hear. Domesticated dogs,blank
can see, hear, and
smell by the end of two weeks. This relative lack of
sensory input may help explain why wolves behave
so differently around humans than dogs do: from a
very young age, wolves are more wary and less
exploratory.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)in other words,
B)for instance,
C)by contrast,
D)accordingly,
30
Upon first approaching artist Kurt Wenner’s Dies
Irae, a colorful scene painted on the surface of a
cobblestone street in Mantua, Italy, one might
assume a deep hole filled with life-sized, classically
styled sculptures had opened up in the street.
blank
by expertly applying the principles of
perspective, Wenner created merely the illusion of
depth.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Additionally,
B)On the contrary,
C)As a result,
D)Next,
31
Economist Elinor Ostrom’s studies of communities
around the world have empirically demonstrated that
common pool resources, such as grazing lands, can
be sustainably managed by the people who use them
(rather than through private entities or centralized
governments).blank
Ostrom’s work is a
repudiation of the “tragedy of the commons,” the
view that individuals will inevitably overexploit a
finite shared resource if given unfettered access to it.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)By contrast,
B)For example,
C)That said,
D)As such,
27
Module
=== parse_mcq result ===
None