pages 3..17
found keys: [1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]
missing: [2]

=== FULL TEXT ===
Module
1
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.
1
The following text is adapted from Ida B. Wells’s
1970 autobiography A Crusade for Justice. Mr. Watts
is a reference to George Frederic Watts, an English
painter.
[Manchester’s] art galleries are so <u>arranged</u>hat
the name of every picture is plainly seen and one
has no need of a catalogue to pick out the name
and the artist. This is a convenience to the
general public, which other art galleries, which
shall be nameless, might copy to advantage. To
her treasure of art Manchester has added
Mr. Watts’ latest picture, the Good Samaritan.
©1970 by the University of Chicago Press
As used in the text, what does the word “arranged”
most nearly mean?
A)Organized
B)Ranked
C)Scheduled
D)Discussed
A)accidental
B)confident
C)expensive
D)consistent
3
Due to their often strange images, highly
experimental syntax, and opaque subject matter,
many of John Ashbery’s poems can be quite difficult
to blankand thus are the object of heated debate
among scholars.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)delegate
B)compose
C)interpret
D)renounce
2
,
2
, ________
____,
One challenge of generating electricity from ocean
waves is that wave power isn’t blank
it varies in
unpredictable ways that pose technological and
planning problems for electricity generation.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?

4
Diego Velázquez was the leading artist in the court
of King Philip IV of Spain during the
seventeenth century, but his influence was hardly
blank
Spain: realist and impressionist painters
around the world employed his techniques and
echoed elements of his style.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)derived from
B)recognized in
C)confined to
D)repressed by
5
Although science fiction was dominated mostly by
white male authors when Octavia Butler, a
Black woman, began writing, she did not view the
genre as blank
Butler broke into the field with
the publication of several short stories and her
1976 novel Patternmaster, and she later became the
first science fiction writer to win a prestigious
MacArthur Fellowship.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)legitimate
B)impenetrable
C)compelling
D)indecipherable
6
<u>To trans
form the story into a play, Yamauchi created situations where characters reveal their thoughts by speaking them aloud during conversations with each other.</u>
<u>[Uncle Katsuhisa] wa
s as loud as my father was quite.</u>Even when he wasn’t talking, he made a lot
of noise, clearing his throat and sniffing and
tapping his fingers.
©2004 by Cynthia Kadohata
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence?
A)It lists the kinds of topics Uncle Katsuhisa enjoys
discussing.
B)It suggests that Uncle Katsuhisa dislikes meeting
new people.
C)It contrasts Uncle Katsuhisa with the narrator’s
father.
D)It describes a conversation between the narrator
and the narrator’s father.
7
Wakako Yamauchi is best known for And the Soul
Shall Dance, her 1977 play about a Japanese
American family in Southern California. The play is
based on a short story Yamauchi had published
three years earlier. Adapting the story wasn’t easy.
Theater relies on dialogue between characters, but
the original story features little dialogue and instead
describes its characters’ silent thoughts. Start refere
nced content: To transform the story into a play,
Yamauchi created situations where characters revea
l their thoughts by speaking them aloud during conversations with each other. End referenced content
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A)It offers information about how Yamauchi
adapted her short story into a play.
B)It argues that Yamauchi’s play influenced later
playwrights.
C)It explains why Yamauchi’s short story is better
known than the play adaptation is.
D)It describes how Yamauchi chose the actors who
performed in the play.
3
Module
1

8
In response to concerns that some recent financial
crises were exacerbated by consumers
misunderstanding risks associated with credit cards,
loans, and other financial products, policymakers in
many countries have instituted risk-disclosure
requirements on sellers of those products. Enrique
Seira et al. investigated a variety of risk-disclosure
messages sent to thousands of credit card customers
and found that the messages had only small and
short-lived effects on behavior. Seira et al. asserted
that such effects may nevertheless be worth pursuing,
<u>given the negligible cost of messaging.</u>
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined portion in the text as a whole?
A)It notes a factor that led Seira et al. to not dismiss
risk-disclosure messaging altogether despite
their evidence of its limited utility.
B)It acknowledges a type of risk-disclosure
messaging that Seira et al. may not have fully
accounted for in their study.
C)It describes a consideration that explains why
Seira et al. recommended risk-disclosure
messaging even though its effects may be small
relative to its costs.
D)It points out a circumstance that Seira et al.
conceded may make risk-disclosure messaging
more effective than their study suggests.
9
Text 1
When companies in the same industry propose
merging with one another, they often claim that the
merger will benefit consumers by increasing
efficiency and therefore lowering prices. Economist
Ying Fan investigated this notion in the context of
the United States newspaper market. She modeled a
hypothetical merger of Minneapolis-area newspapers
and found that subscription prices would rise
following a merger.
Text 2
Economists Dario Focarelli and Fabio Panetta have
argued that research on the effect of mergers on
prices has focused excessively on short-term effects,
which tend to be adverse for consumers. Using the
case of consumer banking in Italy, they show that
over the long term (several years, in their study), the
efficiency gains realized by merged companies do
result in economic benefits for consumers.
Based on the texts, how would Focarelli and Panetta
(Text 2) most likely respond to Fan’s findings
(Text 1)?
A)They would recommend that Fan compare the
near-term effect of a merger on subscription
prices in the Minneapolis area with the effect of a
merger in another newspaper market.
B)They would argue that over the long term the
expenses incurred by the merged newspaper
company will also increase.
C)They would encourage Fan to investigate
whether the projected effect on subscription
prices persists over an extended period.
D)They would claim that mergers have a different
effect on consumer prices in the newspaper
industry than in most other industries.

4
Module
1

10
Utah is home to Pando, a colony of about
47,000 quaking aspen trees that all share a single root
system. Pando is one of the largest single organisms
by mass on Earth, but ecologists are worried that its
growth is declining in part because of grazing by
animals. The ecologists say that strong fences could
prevent deer from eating young trees and help Pando
start thriving again.
According to the text, why are ecologists worried
about Pando?
A)It isn’t growing at the same rate it used to.
B)It isn’t producing young trees anymore.
C)It can’t grow into new areas because it is blocked
by fences.
D)Its root system can’t support many more new
trees.
11
Recordings of Female Bottlenose
Dolphins with Their Calves
Dolphin IDRecording year
FB07
2012
FB25
1989
FB43
1992
FB79
2018
In a study of bottlenose dolphins, biologist
Laela S. Sayigh and a team of researchers analyzed
recordings of female bottlenose dolphins interacting
with their calves.
According to the table, in which year was the dolphin
with the ID FB43 recorded with her calf?
A)1999
B)2012
C)2020
D)1992
12
Maximum Height of Maple Trees
When Fully Grown
Tree type
Maximum
height (feet)
Native to
North America
Sugar maple
yes
Silver maple
yes
Red maple
yes
Japanese maple
25
no
Norway maple
no
For a school project, a forestry student needs to
recommend a maple tree that is native to
North America and won’t grow more than 60 feet in
height. Based on the characteristics of five common
maple trees, she has decided to select a blank
Which choice most effectively uses data from the
table to complete the text?
A)silver maple.
B)sugar maple.
C)red maple.
D)Norway maple.

5
Module
1

13
Metal Content of Plants with
and without Kanamycin
Exposure
Many plants lose their leaf color when exposed to
kanamycin, an antibiotic produced by some soil
microorganisms. Spelman College biologist
Mentewab Ayalew and her colleagues hypothesized
that plants’ response to kanamycin exposure involves
altering their uptake of metals, such as iron and zinc.
The researchers grew two groups of seedlings of the
plant Arabidopsis thaliana, half of which were
exposed to kanamycin and half of which were a
control group without exposure to kanamycin, and
measured the plants’ metal content five days after
germination.
Which choice best describes data in the graph that
support Ayalew and her colleagues’ hypothesis?
A)The control plants contained higher levels of
zinc than iron, but plants exposed to kanamycin
contained higher levels of iron than zinc.
B)Both groups of plants contained more than
200 parts per million of both iron and zinc.
C)Zinc levels were around 300 parts per million in
the control plants but nearly 400 parts per
million in the plants exposed to kanamycin.
D)The plants exposed to kanamycin showed lower
levels of iron and zinc than the control
plants did.

6
Module
1

14
Average Number and Duration of Torpor Bouts
and Arousal Episodes for Alaska Marmots and
Arctic Ground Squirrels, 2008–2011
Feature
Alaska marmots
Arctic ground
squirrels
torpor bouts
12
10.5
duration per bout
13.81 days
16.77 days
arousal episodes
11
9.5
duration per episode
21.2 hours
14.2 hours
When hibernating, Alaska marmots and Arctic
ground squirrels enter a state called torpor, which
minimizes the energy their bodies need to function.
Often a hibernating animal will temporarily come
out of torpor (called an arousal episode) and its
metabolic rate will rise, burning more of the precious
energy the animal needs to survive the winter. Alaska
marmots hibernate in groups and therefore burn
less energy keeping warm during these episodes
than they would if they were alone. A researcher
hypothesized that because Arctic ground squirrels
hibernate alone, they would likely exhibit longer
bouts of torpor and shorter arousal episodes than
Alaska marmots.
Which choice best describes data from the table that
support the researcher’s hypothesis?
A)The Alaska marmots’ arousal episodes lasted for
days, while the Arctic ground squirrels’ arousal
episodes lasted less than a day.
B)The Alaska marmots and the Arctic ground
squirrels both maintained torpor for several
consecutive days per bout, on average.
C)The Alaska marmots had shorter torpor bouts
and longer arousal episodes than the Arctic
ground squirrels did.
D)The Alaska marmots had more torpor bouts
than arousal episodes, but their arousal episodes
were much shorter than their torpor bouts.

7
Module
1

15
Percentage ofNonhexagonal Cells in
Hives of Three Honeybee Species
■ 5-sided cells
□ 7 -sided cells
■ 8-sided cells
Honeybee hives consist mainly of hexagonal
(six-sided) units called cells, in which queens lay
eggs. Hexagonal cells for eggs that develop into
nonreproductive workers are smaller than those for
eggs that develop into reproductive drones, though
the size difference varies by species. Difference in cell
size results in a construction problem—it’s hard to
neatly connect sections of small cells to sections of
large cells—that worsens as the difference increases.
To fill in gaps between the sections when building a
hive, bees rely on cells that have more or fewer than
six sides. A student studying beehive structure
consults data on three species, concluding
that blank
Which choice most effectively uses data from the
graph to complete the student’s conclusion?
A)cells for worker eggs are probably closer in size
to cells for drone eggs in the hives of the
western honeybee than in the hives of the
dwarf honeybee and the black dwarf honeybee.
B)both the western honeybee and the black dwarf
honeybee probably reserve eight-sided cells for
drone eggs, while the dwarf honeybee likely
deposits drone eggs in seven-sided cells.
C)the western honeybee probably relies on many
more geometrical shapes when constructing cell
than either the dwarf honeybee or the
black dwarf honeybee does.
D)the percentage of hexagonal cells is probably
slightly lower in the hives of the western
honeybee than in the hives of the
dwarf honeybee and the black dwarf honeybee.
s

8
Module
1

16
ALSOL is a microcredit program in Mexico that
makes small loans to female entrepreneurs who lack
the collateral and credit history to secure financing
from conventional banks. Borrowers use their
business proceeds to repay loans in equal weekly
installments and incur no penalty for missed
payments other than lack of access to larger loans.
Economists Gustavo Barboza and Sandra Trejos
analyzed ALSOL data and found that rural
borrowers, who mostly make and sell handicrafts,
miss payments more often than urban borrowers do,
partly because they sell their goods less frequently
than they could. Barboza and Trejos claim that this
behavior reflects strategic decisions that enable rural
women to increase their profits per unit sold.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
Barboza and Trejos’s claim?
A)Many marketplaces require entrepreneurs to pay
marketplace operators a fixed percentage of each
day’s proceeds in exchange for permission to sell
goods there.
B)Rural entrepreneurs can typically sell their goods
for higher prices in cities than in their home
areas, but the number of people selling
competing goods tends to be higher in cities.
C)Due to the lower costs they incur, rural
entrepreneurs tend to require smaller initial
loans than urban entrepreneurs do.
D)The cost to rural entrepreneurs to bring their
goods to towns with marketplaces is high but
largely independent of the number of goods they
bring.
17
In documents called judicial opinions, judges explain
the reasoning behind their legal rulings, and in those
explanations they sometimes cite and discuss
historical and contemporary philosophers. Legal
scholar and philosopher Anita L. Allen argues that
while judges are naturally inclined to mention
philosophers whose views align with their own
positions, the strongest judicial opinions consider
and rebut potential objections; discussing
philosophers whose views conflict with judges’ views
could therefore blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)allow judges to craft judicial opinions without
needing to consult philosophical works.
B)help judges improve the arguments they put
forward in their judicial opinions.
C)make judicial opinions more comprehensible to
readers without legal or philosophical training.
D)bring judicial opinions in line with views that are
broadly held among philosophers.

9
Module
1

18
Although military veterans make up a small
proportion of the total population of the
United States, they occupy a significantly higher
proportion of the jobs in the civilian government.
One possible explanation for this disproportionate
representation is that military service familiarizes
people with certain organizational structures that are
also reflected in the civilian government bureaucracy,
and this familiarity thus blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)makes civilian government jobs especially
appealing to military veterans.
B)alters the typical relationship between military
service and subsequent career preferences.
C)encourages nonveterans applying for civilian
government jobs to consider military service
instead.
D)increases the number of civilian government jobs
that require some amount of military experience
to perform.
19
A member of the Cherokee Nation, Mary Golda Ross
is renowned for her contributions to NASA’s
Planetary Flight Handbook, which blank
detailed
mathematical guidance for missions to Mars and
Venus.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)provided
B)having provided
C)to provide
D)providing
20
The classic children’s board game Chutes and
Ladders is a version of an ancient Nepalese game,
Paramapada Sopanapata.In both games, players
encounter “good” or “bad” spaces while traveling
along a path; landing on one of the good spaces
blank
a player to skip ahead and arrive closer to
the end goal.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)allows
B)are allowing
C)have allowed
D)allow
21
In 1930, Japanese American artist Chiura Obata
depicted the natural beauty of Yosemite National
Park in two memorable woodcuts: Evening at Carl
Innand Lake Basin in the High Sierra. In 2019,
blank
exhibited alongside 150 of Obata’s other
works in a single-artist show at the Smithsonian
American Art Museum.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)it was
B)they were
C)this was
D)some were

10
Module
1

22
Journalists have dubbed Gil Scott-Heron the
“godfather of rap,” a title that has appeared in
hundreds of articles about him since the 1990s. Scott-
Heron himself resisted the godfather blank
feeling
that it didn’t encapsulate his devotion to the broader
African American blues music tradition as well as
“bluesologist,” the moniker he preferred.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)nickname, however
B)nickname, however;
C)nickname, however,
D)nickname; however,
23
Stomata, tiny pore structures in a leaf that absorb
gases needed for plant growth, open when guard cells
surrounding each pore swell with water. In a pivotal
2007 article, plant cell blank
showed that lipid
molecules called phosphatidylinositol phosphates are
responsible for signaling guard cells to open stomata.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)biologist, Yuree Lee
B)biologist Yuree Lee,
C)biologist Yuree Lee
D)biologist, Yuree Lee,
24
As cheesemaking practices spread throughout
Europe and Asia during and after the Neolithic,
divergent strategies for preserving milk blank
whereas rennet-coagulated cheesemaking became
key to milk preservation in Europe and
Southwest Asia, acid-heat coagulation methods
became common among nomadic herding
populations of the northeastern Eurasian steppe.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)emerged
B)emerged and
C)emerged:
D)emerged,
25
Recent pollen analyses of the Aran Islands have led
some researchers to propose that the now treeless
islands were once wooded. This hypothesis blank
that certain trees, such as P. sylvestris, survived
without interruption or human intervention
throughout the Holocene cannot stand, researchers
Michael O’Connell and Karen Molloy counter,
unless other explanations can first be ruled out.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)suggesting
B)suggested
C)suggests
D)has suggested

11
Module
1

26
Researchers studying the “terra-cotta army,” the
thousands of life-size statues of warriors found
interred near the tomb of Emperor Qin Shi Huang of
China, were shocked to realize that the shape of each
statue’s ears, like the shape of each person’s ears,
blank
unique.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)are
B)is
C)were
D)have been
27
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s 2013 novel
Americanahchronicles the divergent experiences of
Ifemelu and Obinze, a young Nigerian couple, after
high school. Ifemelu moves to the United States to
attend a prestigious university. blankObinze
travels to London, hoping to start a career there.
However, frustrated with the lack of opportunities,
he soon returns to Nigeria.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Meanwhile,
B)Nevertheless,
C)Secondly,
D)In fact,
28
Some members of the US Supreme Court have
resisted calls to televise the court’s oral arguments,
concerned that the participants would be tempted to
perform for the cameras (and thus lower the quality
of the discourse). blank
the justices worry that
most viewers would not even watch the full
deliberations, only short clips that could be
misinterpreted and mischaracterized.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)However,
B)Additionally,
C)In comparison,
D)For example,
29
The more diverse and wide ranging an animal’s
behaviors, the larger and more energy demanding
the animal’s brain tends to be. blankfrom an
evolutionary perspective, animals that perform only
basic actions should allocate fewer resources to
growing and maintaining brain tissue. The
specialized subtypes of ants within colonies provide
an opportunity to explore this hypothesis.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Subsequently,
B)Besides,
C)Nevertheless,
D)Thus,

12
Module
1

30
A firefly uses specialized muscles to draw oxygen
into its lower abdomen through narrow tubes,
triggering a chemical reaction whereby the oxygen
combines with chemicals in the firefly’s abdomen to
produce a glow. blank
when the firefly stops
drawing in oxygen, the reaction—and the
glow—cease.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)For instance,
B)By contrast,
C)Specifically,
D)In conclusion,
31
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•NASA uses rovers, large remote vehicles with
wheels, to explore the surface of Mars.
•NASA’s rovers can’t explore regions inaccessible
to wheeled vehicles.
•Rovers are also heavy, making them difficult to
land on the planet’s surface.
•Microprobes, robotic probes that weigh as little as
50 milligrams, could be deployed virtually
anywhere on the surface of Mars.
•Microprobes have been proposed as an alternative
to rovers.
The student wants to explain an advantage of
microprobes. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)Despite being heavy, NASA’s rovers can land
successfully on the surface of Mars.
B)Microprobes, which weigh as little as
50 milligrams, could explore areas of Mars that
are inaccessible to NASA’s heavy, wheeled
rovers.
C)NASA currently uses its rovers on Mars, but
microprobes have been proposed as an
alternative.
D)Though they are different sizes, both
microprobes and rovers can be used to explore
the surface of Mars.

13
Module
1

32
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Severo Ochoa discovered the enzyme PNPase
in 1955.
•PNPase is involved in both the creation and
degradation of mRNA.
•Ochoa incorrectly hypothesized that PNPase
provides the genetic blueprints for mRNA.
•The discovery of PNPase proved critical to
deciphering the human genetic code.
•Deciphering the genetic code has led to a better
understanding of how genetic variations affect
human health.
The student wants to emphasize the significance of
Ochoa’s discovery. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A)Ochoa’s 1955 discovery of PNPase proved
critical to deciphering the human genetic code,
leading to a better understanding of how genetic
variations affect human health.
B)Ochoa first discovered PNPase, an enzyme that
he hypothesized contained the genetic blueprints
for mRNA, in 1955.
C)In 1955, Ochoa discovered the PNPase enzyme,
which is involved in both the creation and
degradation of mRNA.
D)Though his discovery of PNPase was critical to
deciphering the human genetic code, Ochoa
incorrectly hypothesized that the enzyme was the
source of mRNA’s genetic blueprints.
33
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Cecilia Vicuña is a multidisciplinary artist.
•In 1971, her first solo art exhibition, Pinturas,
poemas y explicaciones,was shown at the
Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes in Santiago, Chile.
•Her poetry collection Precario/Precariouswas
published in 1983 by Tanam Press.
•Her poetry collection Instanwas published in
2002 by Kelsey St. Press.
•She lives part time in Chile, where she was born,
and part time in New York.
The student wants to introduce the artist’s 1983
poetry collection. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)Before she published the books
Precario/Precarious(1983) and Instan(2002),
Cecilia Vicuña exhibited visual art at the
Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes in Santiago,
Chile.
B)Cecilia Vicuña is a true multidisciplinary artist
whose works include numerous poetry
collections and visual art exhibitions.
C)Published in 1983 by Tanam Press,
Precario/Precariousis a collection of poetry by
the multidisciplinary artist Cecilia Vicuña.
D)In 1971, Cecilia Vicuña exhibited her first solo
art exhibition, Pinturas, poemas y explicaciones,
in Chile, her country of birth.
STOP
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this module only.
Do not turn to any other module in the test.

14
Module
1

No Test Material On This Page
