pages 3..17
found keys: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]
missing: [17]

=== FULL TEXT ===
Module
1
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.
1
The spacecraft OSIRIS-REx briefly made contact
with the asteroid 101955 Bennu in 2020. NASA
scientist Daniella DellaGiustina reports that despite
facing the unexpected obstacle of a surface mostly
covered in boulders, OSIRIS-REx successfully
blank
a sample of the surface, gathering pieces of
it to bring back to Earth.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) attached
B) collected
C) followed
D) replaced
2
Research conducted by planetary scientist Katarina
Miljkovic suggests that the Moon’s surface may not
accurately blank
early impact events. When the
Moon was still forming, its surface was softer, and
asteroid or meteoroid impacts would have left less
of an impression; thus, evidence of early impacts
may no longer be present.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) reflect
B) receive
C) evaluate
D) mimic
2

Module
1
3
Handedness, a preferential use of either the right or
left hand, typically is easy to observe in humans.
Because this trait is present but less blank
in
many other animals, animal-behavior researchers
often employ tasks specially designed to reveal
individual animals’ preferences for a certain hand
or paw.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) recognizable
B) intriguing
C) significant
D) useful
4
It is by no means blank
to recognize the influence
of Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch on Ali
Banisadr’s paintings; indeed, Banisadr himself cites
Bosch as an inspiration. However, some scholars
have suggested that the ancient Mesopotamian poem
Epic of Gilgamesh may have had a far greater impact
on Banisadr’s work.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) substantial
B) satisfying
C) unimportant
D) appropriate
3

Module
1
5
The following text is adapted from Susan Glaspell’s
1912 short story “‘Out There.’” An elderly shop
owner is looking at a picture that he recently
acquired and hopes to sell.
It did seem that the picture failed to fit in with
the rest of the shop. A persuasive young fellow
who claimed he was closing out his stock let the
old man have it for what he called a song. It was
only a little out-of-the-way store which subsisted
chiefly on the framing of pictures. The old man
looked around at his views of the city, his
pictures of cats and dogs, his flaming bits of
landscape. “Don’t belong in here,” he fumed.
And yet the old man was secretly proud of his
acquisition. There was a hidden dignity in his
scowling as he shuffled about pondering the least
ridiculous place for the picture.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the
text?
A) To reveal the shop owner’s conflicted feelings
about the new picture
B) To convey the shop owner’s resentment of the
person he got the new picture from
C) To describe the items that the shop owner most
highly prizes
D) To explain differences between the new picture
and other pictures in the shop
6
The following text is from the 1923 poem “Black
Finger” by Angelina Weld Grimké, a Black American
writer. A cypress is a type of evergreen tree.
I have just seen a most beautiful thing,
Slim and still,
Against a gold, gold sky,
A straight black cypress,
Sensitive,
Exquisite,
A black finger
Pointing upwards.
Why, beautiful still finger, are you black?
And why are you pointing upwards?
Which choice best describes the overall structure of
the text?
A) The speaker assesses a natural phenomenon,
then questions the accuracy of her assessment.
B) The speaker describes a distinctive sight in
nature, then ponders what meaning to attribute
to that sight.
C) The speaker presents an outdoor scene, then
considers a human behavior occurring within
that scene.
D) The speaker examines her surroundings, then
speculates about their influence on her
emotional state.
4

Module
1
7
The following text is from Walt Whitman’s 1860
poem “Calamus 24.”
I HEAR it is charged against me that I seek to
destroy institutions;
But really I am neither for nor against
institutions
(What indeed have I in common with them?—
Or what with the destruction of them?),
Only I will establish in the Mannahatta
[Manhattan] and in every city of These States,
inland and seaboard,
And in the fields and woods, and above every
keel [ship] little or large, that dents the water,
Without edifices, or rules, or trustees, or any
argument,
The institution of the dear love of comrades.
Which choice best describes the overall structure of
the text?
A) The speaker questions an increasingly prevalent
attitude, then summarizes his worldview.
B) The speaker regrets his isolation from others,
then predicts a profound change in society.
C) The speaker concedes his personal
shortcomings, then boasts of his many
achievements.
D) The speaker addresses a criticism leveled against
him, then announces a grand ambition of his.
8
The mimosa tree evolved in East Asia, where the
beetle Bruchidius terrenus preys on its seeds. In 1785,
mimosa trees were introduced to North America, far
from any B. terrenus. <u>But e
volutionary links between predators and their prey can
persist across centuries and continents.</u>2001, B. terrenus was
introduced in southeastern North America near
where botanist Shu-Mei Chang and colleagues had
been monitoring mimosa trees. Within a year,
93 percent of the trees had been attacked by the
beetles.
Which choice best describes the function of the third
sentence in the overall structure of the text?
A) It states the hypothesis that Chang and
colleagues had set out to investigate using
mimosa trees and B. terrenus.
B) It presents a generalization that is exemplified
by the discussion of the mimosa trees and
B. terrenus.
C) It offers an alternative explanation for the
findings of Chang and colleagues.
D) It provides context that clarifies why the species
mentioned spread to new locations.
5

Module
1
9
Text 1
Conventional wisdom long held that human
social systems evolved in stages, beginning with
hunter-gatherers forming small bands of members
with roughly equal status. The shift to agriculture
about 12,000 years ago sparked population growth
that led to the emergence of groups with hierarchical
structures: associations of clans first, then chiefdoms,
and finally, bureaucratic states.
Text 2
In a 2021 book, anthropologist David Graeber and
archaeologist David Wengrow maintain that humans
have always been socially flexible, alternately forming
systems based on hierarchy and collective ones with
decentralized leadership. The authors point to
evidence that as far back as 50,000 years ago some
hunter-gatherers adjusted their social structures
seasonally, at times dispersing in small groups but
also assembling into communities that included
esteemed individuals.
Based on the texts, how would Graeber and
Wengrow (Text 2) most likely respond to the
“conventional wisdom” presented in Text 1?
A) By conceding the importance of hierarchical
systems but asserting the greater significance of
decentralized collective societies
B) By disputing the idea that developments in social
structures have followed a linear progression
through distinct stages
C) By acknowledging that hierarchical roles likely
weren’t a part of social systems before the rise of
agriculture
D) By challenging the assumption that groupings of
hunter-gatherers were among the earliest forms
of social structure
10
The following text is adapted from Frances Hodgson
Burnett’s 1911 novel The Secret Garden. Mary, a
young girl, recently found an overgrown hidden
garden.
Mary was an odd, determined little person,
and now she had something interesting to be
determined about, she was very much absorbed,
indeed. She worked and dug and pulled up
weeds steadily, only becoming more pleased with
her work every hour instead of tiring of it. It
seemed to her like a fascinating sort of play.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Mary hides in the garden to avoid doing her
chores.
B) Mary is getting bored with pulling up so many
weeds in the garden.
C) Mary is clearing out the garden to create a space
to play.
D) Mary feels very satisfied when she’s taking care
of the garden.
6

Module
1
11
The following text is from Ezra Pound’s 1909 poem
“Hymn III,” based on the work of Marcantonio
Flaminio.
As a fragile and lovely flower unfolds its gleaming
foliage on the breast of the fostering earth, if
the dew and the rain draw it forth;
So doth my tender mind flourish, if it be fed with the
sweet dew of the fostering spirit,
Lacking this, it beginneth straightway to languish,
even as a floweret born upon dry earth, if the
dew and the rain tend it not.
Based on the text, in what way is the human mind
like a flower?
A) It becomes increasingly vigorous with the
passage of time.
B) It draws strength from changes in the weather.
C) It requires proper nourishment in order to
thrive.
D) It perseveres despite challenging circumstances.
12
The following text is adapted from Jack London’s
1903 novel The Call of the Wild. Buck is a sled dog
living with John Thornton in Yukon, Canada.
Thornton alone held [Buck]. The rest of
mankind was as nothing. Chance travellers
might praise or pet him; but he was cold under it
all, and from a too demonstrative man he would
get up and walk away. When Thornton’s
partners, Hans and Pete, arrived on the
long-expected raft, Buck refused to notice them
till he learned they were close to Thornton; after
that he tolerated them in a passive sort of way,
accepting favors from them as though he favored
them by accepting.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Buck has become less social since he began living
with Thornton.
B) Buck mistrusts humans and does his best to
avoid them.
C) Buck has been especially well liked by most of
Thornton’s friends.
D) Buck holds Thornton in higher regard than any
other person.
7

US States with the Greatest Number of
Organic Farms in 2016
State
Module
1
13
Organic farming is a method of growing food that
tries to reduce environmental harm by using natural
forms of pest control and avoiding fertilizers made
with synthetic materials. Organic farms are still a
small fraction of the total farms in the United States,
but they have been becoming more popular.
According to the US Department of Agriculture, in
2016 California had between 2,600 and 2,800 organic
farms and blank

Which choice most effectively uses data from the
graph to complete the text?
A) Washington had between 600 and 800 organic
farms.
B) New York had fewer than 800 organic farms.
C) Wisconsin and Iowa each had between 1,200 and
1,400 organic farms.
D) Pennsylvania had more than 1,200 organic
farms.
14
Biologist Valentina Gómez-Bahamón and her team
have investigated two subspecies of the fork-tailed
flycatcher bird that live in the same region in
Colombia, but one subspecies migrates south for part
of the year, and the other doesn’t. The researchers
found that, due to slight differences in feather shape,
the feathers of migratory forked-tailed flycatcher
males make a sound during flight that is higher
pitched than that made by the feathers of
nonmigratory males. The researchers hypothesize
that fork-tailed flycatcher females are attracted to the
specific sound made by the males of their own
subspecies, and that over time the females’
preference will drive further genetic and anatomical
divergence between the subspecies.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
Gómez-Bahamón and her team’s hypothesis?
A) The feathers located on the wings of the
migratory fork-tailed flycatchers have a narrower
shape than those of the nonmigratory birds,
which allows them to fly long distances.
B) Over several generations, the sound made by the
feathers of migratory male fork-tailed flycatchers
grows progressively higher pitched relative to
that made by the feathers of nonmigratory
males.
C) Fork-tailed flycatchers communicate different
messages to each other depending on whether
their feathers create high-pitched or low-pitched
sounds.
D) The breeding habits of the migratory and
nonmigratory fork-tailed flycatchers remained
generally the same over several generations.
8

Module
1
I
I I I I I
15
Ablation Rates for Three Elements in Cosmic Dust, by
Dust Source
Element SPC AST HTC OCC
iron
20 percent sign28 percent sign90 percent sign98 percent sign
potassium 44 percent sign74 percent sign97 percent sign100 percent sign
sodium
45 percent sign75 percent sign99 percent sign100 percent sign
Earth’s atmosphere is bombarded by cosmic dust
originating from several sources: short-period
comets (SPCs), particles from the asteroid belt
(ASTs), Halley-type comets (HTCs), and Oort cloud
comets (OCCs). Some of the dust’s material
vaporizes in the atmosphere in a process called
ablation, and the faster the particles move, the higher
the rate of ablation. Astrophysicist Juan Diego
Carrillo-Sánchez led a team that calculated average
ablation rates for elements in the dust (such as iron
and potassium) and showed that material in slower-
moving SPC or AST dust has a lower rate than the
same material in faster-moving HTC or OCC dust.
For example, whereas the average ablation rate
for iron from AST dust is 28 percent sign, the average rate
for blank

Which choice most effectively uses data from the
table to complete the example?
A) iron from SPC dust is 20 percent sign.
B) sodium from OCC dust is 100 percent sign.
C) iron from HTC dust is 90 percent sign.
D) sodium from AST dust is 75 percent sign.
16
Art collectives, like the United States-and Vietnam-
based collective The Propeller Group or Cuba’s Los
Carpinteros, are groups of artists who agree to work
together: perhaps for stylistic reasons, or to advance
certain shared political ideals, or to help mitigate the
costs of supplies and studio space. Regardless of
the reasons, art collectives usually involve some
collaboration among the artists. Based on a recent
series of interviews with various art collectives, an
arts journalist claims that this can be difficult for
artists who are often used to having sole control over
their work.
Which quotation from the interviews best illustrates
the journalist’s claim?
A) “The first collective I joined included many
amazingly talented artists, and we enjoyed each
other’s company, but because we had a hard time
sharing credit and responsibility for our work,
the collective didn’t last.”
B) “We work together, but that doesn’t mean that
individual projects are equally the work of all of
us. Many of our projects are primarily the
responsibility of whoever originally proposed the
work to the group.”
C) “Having worked as a member of a collective for
several years, it’s sometimes hard to recall what it
was like to work alone without the collective’s
support. But that support encourages my
individual expression rather than limits it.”
D) “Sometimes an artist from outside the collective
will choose to collaborate with us on a project,
but all of those projects fit within the larger
themes of the work the collective does on its
own.”
9

Module
1
17
Effects of Mycorrhizal Fungi on 3 Plant Species
Plant
species
Mycorrhizal
host
Average mass of plants
grown in soil containing
mycorrhizal fungi
(in grams)
Average mass of plants
grown in soil treated
to kill fungi (in grams)
Corn
yes
15.1
3.8
Marigold
yes
10.2
2.4
Broccoli
no
7.5
7
Mycorrhizal fungi in soil benefits many plants, substantially increasing
the mass of some. A student conducted an experiment to illustrate this
effect. The student chose three plant species for the experiment,
including two that are mycorrhizal hosts (species known to benefit
from mycorrhizal fungi) and one nonmycorrhizal species (a species
that doesn’t benefit from and may even be harmed by mycorrhizal
fungi). The student then grew several plants from each species both in
soil containing mycorrhizal fungi and in soil that had been treated to
kill mycorrhizal and other fungi. After several weeks, the student
measured the plants’ average mass and was surprised to discover
that blank

Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the
statement?
A) broccoli grown in soil containing mycorrhizal fungi had a slightly
higher average mass than broccoli grown in soil that had been
treated to kill fungi.
B) corn grown in soil containing mycorrhizal fungi had a higher
average mass than broccoli grown in soil containing mycorrhizal
fungi.
C) marigolds grown in soil containing mycorrhizal fungi had a much
higher average mass than marigolds grown in soil that had been
treated to kill fungi.
D) corn had the highest average mass of all three species grown in soil
that had been treated to kill fungi, while marigolds had the lowest.
10

Module
1
18
Several artworks found among the ruins of the
ancient Roman city of Pompeii depict a female figure
fishing with a cupid nearby. Some scholars have
asserted that the figure is the goddess Venus, since
she is known to have been linked with cupids in
Roman culture, but University of Leicester
archaeologist Carla Brain suggests that cupids may
have also been associated with fishing generally. The
fact that a cupid is shown near the female figure,
therefore, blank

Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) is not conclusive evidence that the figure is
Venus.
B) suggests that Venus was often depicted fishing.
C) eliminates the possibility that the figure is
Venus.
D) would be difficult to account for if the figure is
not Venus.
19
Literary agents estimate that more than half of all
nonfiction books credited to a celebrity or other
public figure are in fact written by ghostwriters,
professional authors who are paid to write other
blank
but whose names never appear on book
covers.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) people’s stories
B) peoples story’s
C) peoples stories
D) people’s story’s
20
Like other amphibians, the wood frog (Rana
sylvatica) is unable to generate its own heat, so
during periods of subfreezing temperatures, it
blank
by producing large amounts of glucose, a
sugar that helps prevent damaging ice from forming
inside its cells.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) had survived
B) survived
C) would survive
D) survives
21
After a spate of illnesses as a child, Wilma Rudolph
was told she might never walk again. Defying all
odds, Rudolph didn’t just walk, she blank
the
1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, she won both the
100-and 200-meter dashes and clinched first place
for her team in the 4 ×100-meter relay, becoming
the first US woman to win three gold medals in a
single Olympics.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) ran—fast—during
B) ran—fast during
C) ran—fast, during
D) ran—fast. During
11

Module
1
22
In many of her landscape paintings from the 1970s
and 1980s, Lebanese American artist Etel Adnan
worked to capture the essence of California’s
fog-shrouded Mount Tamalpais region through
abstraction, using splotches of color to represent
the area’s features. Interestingly, the triangle
representing the mountain itself blank
among the
few defined figures in her paintings.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) are
B) have been
C) were
D) is
23
Seneca sculptor Marie Watt’s blanket art comes in a
range of shapes and sizes. In 2004, Watt sewed strips
of blankets together to craft a 10-by-13-inch
blank
in 2014, she arranged folded blankets into
two large stacks and then cast them in bronze,
creating two curving 18-foot-tall blue-bronze pillars.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) sampler later,
B) sampler;
C) sampler,
D) sampler, later,
24
African American Percy Julian was a scientist and
entrepreneur whose work helped people around the
world to see. Named in 1999 as one of the greatest
achievements by a US chemist in the past hundred
years, blank
led to the first mass-produced
treatment for glaucoma.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) Julian synthesized the alkaloid physostigmine in
1935; it
B) in 1935 Julian synthesized the alkaloid
physostigmine, which
C) Julian’s 1935 synthesis of the alkaloid
physostigmine
D) the alkaloid physostigmine was synthesized by
Julian in 1935 and
25
The Arctic-Alpine Botanic Garden in Norway and
the Jardim Botânico of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil are
two of many botanical gardens around the world
dedicated to growing diverse plant blank

fostering scientific research; and educating the public
about plant conservation.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) species, both native and nonnative,
B) species, both native and nonnative;
C) species; both native and nonnative,
D) species both native and nonnative,
12

Module
1
26
Sociologist Alton Okinaka sits on the review board
tasked with adding new sites to the Hawai‘i Register
of Historic Places, which includes Pi‘ilanihale
Heiau and the ‘Ōpaeka‘a Road Bridge. Okinaka
doesn’t make such decisions blank
all historical
designations must be approved by a group of nine
other experts from the fields of architecture,
archaeology, history, and Hawaiian culture.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) single-handedly, however;
B) single-handedly; however,
C) single-handedly, however,
D) single-handedly however
27
In 1968, US Congressman John Conyers introduced
a bill to establish a national holiday in honor of
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The bill didn’t make it to
a vote, but Conyers was determined. He teamed up
with Shirley Chisholm, the first Black woman to be
elected to Congress, and they resubmitted the bill
every session for the next fifteen years. blank
in
1983, the bill passed.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) Instead,
B) Likewise,
C) Finally,
D) Additionally,
28
Geoscientists have long considered Hawaii’s Mauna
Loa volcano to be Earth’s largest shield volcano by
volume, measuring approximately 74,000 cubic
kilometers. blank
according to a 2020 study by
local geoscientist Michael Garcia, Hawaii’s
Pūhāhonu shield volcano is significantly larger,
boasting a volume of about 148,000 cubic kilometers.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) Secondly,
B) Consequently,
C) Moreover,
D) However,
29
Samuel Coleridge-Taylor was a prominent classical
music composer from England who toured the US
three times in the early 1900s. The child of a West
African father and an English mother, Coleridge-
Taylor emphasized his mixed-race ancestry. For
example, he referred to himself as Anglo-African.
blank
he incorporated the sounds of traditional
African music into his classical music compositions.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) In addition,
B) Actually,
C) However,
D) Regardless,
13

Module
1
30
In 2019, researcher Patricia Jurado Gonzalez and
food historian Nawal Nasrallah prepared a stew from
a 4,000-year-old recipe found on a Mesopotamian
clay tablet. When they tasted the dish, known as
pašrūtum (“unwinding”), they found that it had a
mild taste and inspired a sense of calm. blank
the
researchers, knowing that dishes were sometimes
named after their intended effects, theorized that the
dish’s name, “unwinding,” referred to its function: to
help ancient diners relax.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) Therefore,
B) Alternately,
C) Nevertheless,
D) Likewise,
31
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
• Chemical leavening agents cause carbon dioxide
to be released within a liquid batter, making the
batter rise as it bakes.
• Baking soda and baking powder are chemical
leavening agents.
• Baking soda is pure sodium bicarbonate.
• To produce carbon dioxide, baking soda needs to
be mixed with liquid and an acidic ingredient such
as honey.
• Baking powder is a mixture of sodium bicarbonate
and an acid.
• To produce carbon dioxide, baking powder needs
to be mixed with liquid but not with an acidic
ingredient.
The student wants to emphasize a difference between
baking soda and baking powder. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes
to accomplish this goal?
A) To make batters rise, bakers use chemical
leavening agents such as baking soda and baking
powder.
B) Baking soda and baking powder are chemical
leavening agents that, when mixed with other
ingredients, cause carbon dioxide to be released
within a batter.
C) Baking soda is pure sodium bicarbonate, and
honey is a type of acidic ingredient.
D) To produce carbon dioxide within a liquid
batter, baking soda needs to be mixed with an
acidic ingredient, whereas baking powder does
not.
14

Module
1
32
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
• Soo Sunny Park is a Korean American artist who
uses light as her primary medium of expression.
• She created her work Unwoven Light in 2013.
• Unwoven Light featured a chain-link fence fitted
with iridescent plexiglass tiles.
• When light passed through the fence, colorful
prisms formed.
The student wants to describe Unwoven Light to an
audience unfamiliar with Soo Sunny Park. Which
choice most effectively uses relevant information
from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A) Park’s 2013 installation Unwoven Light, which
included a chain-link fence and iridescent tiles
made from plexiglass, featured light as its
primary medium of expression.
B) Korean American light artist Soo Sunny Park
created Unwoven Light in 2013.
C) The chain-link fence in Soo Sunny Park’s
Unwoven Light was fitted with tiles made from
iridescent plexiglass.
D) In Unwoven Light, a 2013 work by Korean
American artist Soo Sunny Park, light formed
colorful prisms as it passed through a fence Park
had fitted with iridescent tiles.
33
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
• Cambodia’s Angkor Wat was built in the 1100s to
honor the Hindu god Vishnu.
• It has been a Buddhist temple since the sixteenth
century.
• Decorrelation stretch analysis is a novel digital
imaging technique that enhances the contrast
between colors in a photograph.
• Archaeologist Noel Hidalgo Tan applied
decorrelation stretch analysis to photographs he
had taken of Angkor Wat’s plaster walls.
• Tan’s analysis revealed hundreds of images
unknown to researchers.
The student wants to present Tan’s research to an
audience unfamiliar with Angkor Wat. Which choice
most effectively uses relevant information from the
notes to accomplish this goal?
A) Tan photographed Angkor Wat’s plaster walls
and then applied decorrelation stretch analysis to
the photographs.
B) Decorrelation stretch analysis is a novel digital
imaging technique that Tan used to enhance the
contrast between colors in a photograph.
C) Using a novel digital imaging technique, Tan
revealed hundreds of images hidden on the walls
of Angkor Wat, a Cambodian temple.
D) Built to honor a Hindu god before becoming a
Buddhist temple, Cambodia’s Angkor Wat
concealed hundreds of images on its plaster
walls.
STOP
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this module only.
Do not turn to any other module in the test.
15