pages 19..31
found keys: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23]
missing: [24, 25, 26, 27]

=== FULL TEXT ===
1
Taking photographs in the mid-1800s was
complicated and expensive, but this changed with the
1854 invention of the carte de visite, a small photo
that cost little to make. Carte de visitephotos helped
to blank
photography: they made it easy and
enjoyable for everyday people to have their pictures
taken, and people at the time loved exchanging these
small photos with friends and family.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)weaken
B)praise
C)popularize
D)isolate
2
Painter Alma W. Thomas was fascinated by the
colors and shapes found in nature. The flowers and
trees in the garden at her home in Washington, DC,
blank
her work. For example, Thomas’s use of
broken brushstrokes was inspired by the way that
light would shine through the leaves of a tree in front
of her house.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)restricted
B)announced
C)distracted
D)influenced
18
Module
2
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.

3
In the 1990s, conservationists began planting more
than 500,000 native trees in the habitat of the Azores
bullfinch to boost the bird’s numbers. This approach
was apparently blank
: the Azores bullfinch’s
population size increased from as few as 100 birds at
the end of the 1980s to around 1,300 in 2023.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?

A)amusing
B)costly
C)successful
D)disastrous
4
The recently observed gamma ray burst
GRB 230307A lasted for 200 seconds, blank
for a
burst generated by the merger of neutron stars.
Bursts caused by neutron mergers typically last fewer
than 2 seconds.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)a coincidence
B)a reprieve
C)an incident
D)an oddity
5
In 1776, the United States sent Benjamin Franklin to
France to try to win the country’s support in the
United States’ fight for independence from
Great Britain. Franklin was very popular in France.
This blank
surely helped him to convince France
to assist the United States.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A)thoughtfulness
B)esteem
C)controversy
D)sincerity
6
In the 1950s, scientists didn’t know much about the
ocean floor.<u>Many scientists a
t the time believed that the ocean floor was mostly flat.</u>But geologist
Marie Tharp and her research partner,
Bruce Heezen, proved that this idea was wrong.
Using sonar data collected from the Atlantic Ocean,
Tharp and Heezen showed that the floor was filled
with canyons, mountains, and valleys.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A)It identifies a scientific belief that Tharp and
Heezen showed to be wrong.
B)It describes the design of Tharp and Heezen’s
experiment.
C)It emphasizes a disagreement between Tharp
and Heezen.
D)It presents data to support a claim that Tharp
and Heezen made.
19
Module
2

7
In the early days of television in the 1940s, many
people thought that US television programs would
rely on the financial support of ad agencies and
commercial sponsors, much like radio did. But
advertisers hesitated to jump into a new space,
<u>particularly at a time when
the manufacturing of new television sets w
as stalled due to the US’s involvement in World War II.</u>Broadcasters, like the
National Broadcasting Company (NBC), needed to
persuade advertisers to support their programming
despite not knowing whether there would be a robust
television audience to begin with.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined phrase in the text as a whole?
A)It compares the beginnings of radio
programming with the beginnings of television
programming in the United States.
B)It identifies a specific reason behind some
advertisers’ hesitance to support television.
C)It describes how broadcasters attempted to
convince advertisers to support television.
D)It explains why a type of television programming
was popular at the time.
8
The Bayeux Tapestry, from eleventh-century France,
depicts 75 scenes over 250 feet of fabric. It was likely
produced by workers embroidering in sections and
then joining the resulting panels together. It’s
plausible that the workshop that produced the
tapestry had never produced one so large, and some
researchers claim that a close examination of the
joins—the places where the panels are stitched
together—suggests that the workers developed and
refined their joining process over the course of
production. <u>For example, t
he first join the workers completed exhibits a
clear misalignment of the borders of the two panels,
whereas the later joins are virtually invisible.</u>
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A)It identifies the people and events depicted in the
Bayeux Tapestry.
B)It supports an argument about the workers who
produced the Bayeux Tapestry.
C)It compares the Bayeux Tapestry with other
tapestries from eleventh-century France.
D)It describes how researchers determined where
the Bayeux Tapestry was produced.
20
Module
2

9
Text 1
Little is known about how plate tectonics—wherein
slabs of Earth’s crust move over, under, away from,
and against one another—began.Start referenced
Content:Some researchers contend End referenced Contenthat tectonic movements began around
3 billion years ago, often noting that computer
models of Earth’s mantle temperature at the time
indicate that the mantle would have been sufficiently
molten to enable the plates to move.
Text 2
Ultimately, any plausible claim about the inception
of tectonic movement must rest on empirical
evidence from the geological record. Researcher
Wriju Chowdhury and his team analyzed the
geochemistry of zircon crystals to gain insight into
the chemical composition of the magma from which
the crystals formed and, based on the data,
compellingly argue that plate tectonics may have
been occurring as early as 4.2 billion years ago.
Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2
most likely respond to what “some researchers
contend” as described in Text 1?
A)By suggesting that the temperature of Earth’s
mantle 3 billion years ago was likely insufficient
to allow for the level of tectonic movement
predicted by computer models
B)By distinguishing between computer models of
Earth’s mantle temperature that reliably predict
the onset of plate tectonics and those that do not
C)By indicating that computer models of Earth’s
mantle temperature are still being improved
such that new models tend to be much more
reliable than their predecessors
D)By asserting that a more definitive form of
evidence than the computer models suggests a
different timeline for the onset of plate tectonics
on Earth
10
Hevea brasiliensis, a tree in the Amazon rainforest, is
the world’s main source of natural rubber. The tree
produces a milky substance called latex that is used
to make rubber. The bark of Hevea brasiliensisis
helpful for the process of making rubber because it
has a unique structure that makes it easy to collect
latex. A network of tubes in the tree’s inner bark
helps the latex to flow out easily when people make
small cuts into the bark.
What feature of Hevea brasiliensisdoes the text say is
helpful for the process of making rubber?
A)Its latex produces rubber of an especially high
quality.
B)Its bark has a unique structure that makes it easy
to collect latex.
C)It is able to grow in a wide variety of climates
around the world.
D)It is one of only two trees in the Amazon that
produce latex.
21
Module
2

11
Conservationists worldwide are working to protect
ecosystems from habitat destruction and biodiversity
loss, and in many cases, initiatives that rely on
natural features or processes can help address such
challenges. In response to a rapidly dwindling
population of blueback salmon, the Quinault Indian
Nation (a tribe in Washington State) partnered with
the conservation organization Wild Salmon Center
to restore naturally occurring logjams in the
Quinault River. The logjams create shady pools
where the blueback salmon can rest and spawn, thus
promoting blueback population recovery.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A)A partnership between the Quinault Indian
Nation and Wild Salmon Center shows the
importance of collaborative approaches to
preserving biodiversity.
B)Nature-based approaches can be effective ways
to achieve conservation goals.
C)As indicated by a recent project, logjams help the
blueback salmon thrive and reproduce.
D)Scientists now realize that nature-based
conservation methods offer better long-term
solutions to environmental issues than methods
that are not nature-based do.
12
Percentage of Bus Shelters with Shade in a
County by Areas’ Highest Average Summer
Surface Temperature
Highest average surface
Percentage of bus stops
temperature (Fahrenheit)
with shaded shelter
90.2 degree
15 precent
97.7 degree
22 precent
102.7 degree
24 precent
111.2 degree
28 precent
125.6 degree
29 precent
A student is researching a bus system in a large
county where surface temperatures vary by area and
are hot in the summer. The student claims that all
areas of the county should have more bus stops with
shaded shelter, noting that the highest percentage of
bus stops with shaded shelter for any area is
only BLANK
Which choice most effectively uses data from the
table to complete the student’s claim?
A)50 degree
B)15 degree
C)90 degree
D)29 degree
22
Module
2

13
Total Areas and 2022 Populations of Smallest
Arabian Peninsula Countries
Total area
Country(square miles)Population
Kuwait
6,880
4,268,873
Bahrain
304
1,472,233
Qatar
4,471
2,695,122
In terms of area and population, the three smallest
Arabian Peninsula countries are Bahrain, Qatar, and
Kuwait.
According to the table, what is the total area of
Bahrain?
A)4,268,873 square miles
B)4,471 square miles
C)304 square miles
D)6,880 square miles
14
Janet Echelman is a sculptor and fiber artist. She has
installed giant sculptures all over the world.
Echelman uses bright and flowing materials, which
mimic the wind.<u>Howev
er, while her sculptures appear as delicate as a breez
e, they are actually very durable.</u>
Which quotation from an article about Echelman’s
sculptures, if true, would most effectively illustrate
the underlined claim?
A)“Echelman uses a special program that makes a
3D model of the sculpture.”
B)“The first part of planning a new sculpture is
done using paper and pencil, and then a digital
program is used to finalize the design.”
C)“The materials that Echelman uses to build her
sculptures are both flexible and strong.”
D)“Each sculpture is designed to reflect local
landmarks from the area in which it is eventually
installed.”
15
Early Earth is thought to have been characterized by
a stagnant lid tectonic regime, in which the upper
lithosphere (the outer rocky layer) was essentially
immobile and there was no interaction between the
lithosphere and the underlying mantle. Researchers
investigated the timing of the transition from a
stagnant lid regime to a tectonic plate regime, in
which the lithosphere is fractured into dynamic
plates that in turn allow lithospheric and mantle
material to mix. Examining chemical data from
lithospheric and mantle-derived rocks ranging from
285 million to 3.8 billion years old, the researchers
dated the transition to 3.2 billion years ago.
Which finding, if true, would most directly support
the researchers’ conclusion?
A)Among rocks known to be older than 3.2 billion
years, significantly more are mantle derived than
lithospheric, but the opposite is true for the
rocks younger than 3.2 billion years.
B)Mantle-derived rocks older than 3.2 billion years
show significantly more compositional diversity
than lithospheric rocks older than 3.2 billion
years do.
C)There is a positive correlation between the age of
lithospheric rocks and their chemical similarity
to mantle-derived rocks, and that correlation
increases significantly in strength at around
3.2 billion years old.
D)Mantle-derived rocks younger than 3.2 billion
years contain some material that is not found in
older mantle-derived rocks but is found in older
and contemporaneous lithospheric rocks.
23
Module
2

16
The Uto-Aztecan language family is divided into a
northern branch, which includes the Shoshone
language of present-day Idaho and Utah, and a
southern one, whose best-known representative is
Nahuatl, the language of the Aztec Empire in
Mexico. Lexical similarities across the family,
including of botanical terms, confirm descent from a
single language spoken millennia ago, and the
family’s geographical distribution suggests an origin
in what is now the US Southwest. However,
vocabulary pertaining to maize isn’t shared between
northern and southern branches, despite the crop’s
universal cultivation among Uto-Aztecan tribes.
Given archaeological evidence that maize originated
in Mexico and diffused northward into what became
the US Southwest, some linguists reason
thatblank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)northern Uto-Aztecan tribes likely obtained the
crop directly from a southern Uto-Aztecan tribe
rather than from a non-Uto-Aztecan tribe.
B)variation in maize-related vocabulary within
each branch of the Uto-Aztecan family likely
reflects regionally specific methods for
cultivating the crop.
C)southern Uto-Aztecan tribes likely acquired
maize at roughly the same time as northern
Uto-Aztecan tribes did, though from different
sources.
D)the family’s division into northern and southern
branches likely preceded the acquisition of the
crop by the Uto-Aztecan tribes.
17
Data collected by the Mars rover Curiosityat the
Gale Crater’s Murray Formation are suggestive of
hydrological deposition of sediment in the distant
past. To characterize the nature of the depositional
environment, Frances Rivera-Hernández et al.
analyzed the grain size of Murray Formation
sediment, finding that although there are intervals of
coarse grains, most of the sediment consists of fine
grains that show signs of cracking due to episodic
desiccation. Rivera-Hernández et al. concluded that
the coarse grains are sandstone, which tends to be
deposited by flowing water, whereas the fine grains
are mudstone, which is slowly deposited by settling
out of suspension in low-flow water, leading the
researchers to posit that blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
A)although the area of the Murray Formation
experienced a prolonged period of dryness that
prevented a lake from forming, water flowing
from a distant source was present.
B)a lake existed at the Murray Formation for a
prolonged period, though the lake occasionally
experienced drying and there were periods in
which one or more streams were present.
C)one or more streams existed at the Murray
Formation for an extended period until being
replaced by a lake that persisted for only a brief
period before permanently drying.
D)a stream-fed lake was present at the Murray
Formation for an extended period, and although
the streams experienced occasional drying, the
lake did not.
24
Module
2

18
An analysis by Alain Elayi and colleagues of coins
minted in Sidon in the fifth and fourth centuries BCE
reveals a change in their composition over time:
while a coin from circa 450 BCE contains about
98%silver and
copper, a coin from 367 BCE (the
end of Ba’alšillem II’s reign) contains
silver
and
copper, giving it a relatively yellowish
appearance that traders would have noticed. Because
coins with a silver content below
were widely
considered unsuitable for trade, Elayi et al. speculate
that a crisis in confidence in the currency occurred in
Sidon around 367 BCE, which was likely relieved—
despite Sidon’s persistent oppressive financial
obligations—as a result of Ba’alšillem II’s successor
Abd’aštart I’s decision to blank
Which choice most logically completes the text?
1%

74.2%

24.7%

80%

A)proclaim that the percentage of silver in coins
suitable for trade would be raised to a threshold
higher than 80%.
B)keep the amount of silver in Sidonian coins
consistent with that in coins minted in 367 BCE
but decrease their weight.
C)begin minting heavier coins with a proportion of
silver to copper similar to that in coins minted in
367 BCE.
D)fund the mining of some copper deposits that
were not available to Ba’alšillem II.
19
Nowadays, tug-of-war is usually seen as an informal
game one might play at a picnic or in gym class.
Surprisingly, the Olympic committee once decided
_______tug-of-war as an official Olympic event!
Nations competed in the event at the Olympic
Games from 1900 to 1920.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)included
B)including
C)include
D)to include
20
The Globe Theatre in London is a reconstruction of
the famed venue where many of Shakespeare’s plays
were first performed. In 1613, a prop cannon
blank
during a performance and ignited the
Globe’s thatched roof. No one was hurt, but in
two hours the original Globe was gone.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)malfunctions
B)will malfunction
C)has malfunctioned
D)malfunctioned
21
Nigerian American artist Toyin Ojih Odutola uses
black-ink pens to create highly detailed drawings of
human figures. Her portrait of novelist
Zadie blank
is displayed in the National Portrait
Gallery in London.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)Smith:
B)Smith—
C)Smith
D)Smith,
25
Module
2

22
When a given industry—water and electricity are
two well-known examples—carries high
infrastructural start-up costs and other barriers that
discourage competition, blank
of just one or
two suppliers per municipality. Such industries are
known as natural monopolies.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)these often consist
B)they often consist
C)it often consists
D)this often consists
As the fourteenth US librarian of Congress,
Carla Hayden has many responsibilities. These
include overseeing the Library of Congress’s
collections, which boast more than 162 million
blank
the US Copyright Office, which registers
copyright claims and advises Congress on copyright
law; and appointing the US poet laureate.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)items managing
B)items, managing
C)items; managing
D)items. Managing
24
Digital artist Jung (Lulu) Chen primarily uses a suite
of software tools to create illustrations for children’s
books. To manifest the warm and welcoming
atmospheres that are a signature of her blank
she
occasionally relies on more traditional art
techniques, such as painting with watercolors.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)work, though,
B)work, though
C)work; though,
D)work, though;
25
Chondrites are stony meteorites that are
undifferentiated—that is, their contents have not
melted and separated into distinct layers. They are
hardly blank
many chondrites experience aqueous
alteration as a result of exposure to fluids, as well as
fracturing, veining, and localized melting due to
collisions with other objects.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)pristine, though
B)pristine, though;
C)pristine; though
D)pristine, though,
26
Module
2
23

26
That the geographic center of North America lay in
the state of North Dakota was conceded by all
blank
establishing its precise coordinates proved
more divisive.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A)involved:
B)involved,
C)involved
D)involved;
27
Famous for its four-degree tilt, the leaning
Garisenda Tower is a popular attraction in Bologna’s
city center. However, measurements taken in 2023
showed that the tower was rotating in a concerning
way. blank
city officials closed the area around the
tower so experts could explore solutions to stabilize
the historical twelfth-century structure.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Similarly,
B)As a result,
C)For example,
D)In comparison,
28
In 2021, a model developed by astrophysicist
Catherine Zucker and her research team revealed
that the same supernovas responsible for the creation
and ongoing expansion of the Local Bubble—a
14-million-year-old cavity in the Milky Way—are
likely responsible for the formation of new stars.
blank
this model detailed how the bubble’s
expansion trapped interstellar clouds of gas and dust
that became stars upon their eventual collapse.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Hence,
B)However,
C)Admittedly,
D)Specifically,
27
Module
2

29
Following the American Revolutionary War,
North American foodways underwent a radical
transformation, fueled in large part by spiking
consumer demand for certain grains. The cultivation,
trade, and transportation of maize and wheat,
blank
reconfigured the continent’s existing
regional foodways into a globally oriented food
system.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)in particular,
B)alternatively,
C)by comparison,
D)second of all,
30
When, in 2017, Cambridge University students
Lucy Moss and Toby Marlow decided they wanted to
develop a musical together, one of their goals was for
their female actor friends to have good parts to play.
blank
they created the show Six, a retelling of the
history of King Henry VIII’s wives in which each of
the six queens has a starring role.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)In other words,
B)In summary,
C)For example,
D)To that end,
31
Mountain climbing routes that incorporate metal
rungs and cables are known as via ferratas, from the
Italian phrase for “iron path.” As climbing these
routes has shifted from a mode of travel to a sporting
activity, modern via ferratas are rarely designed to
simply reach a summit. blank
new routes favor
recreation over utility, aiming to provide a
challenging climb or showcase dramatic scenery.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A)Additionally,
B)On the other hand,
C)More often,
D)Nonetheless,
28
Module
2

32
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
• Samuel Delany is a US writer known for his
science fiction.
• Delany’s science fiction novel Babel-17was
published in 1966.
• The novel won a Nebula Award in 1967.
• The Nebula Awards are given each year to the best
works of science fiction published in the US.
The student wants to indicate the title of a novel that
won a Nebula Award. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A)Babel-17, by Samuel Delany, won a Nebula
Award in 1967.
B)Samuel Delany published a science fiction novel
in 1966.
C)Samuel Delany is an award-winning US writer
known for his science fiction.
D)One of Samuel Delany’s novels was among the
best works of science fiction published in the US.
33
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
• Chiura Obata was a Japanese American artist who
lived in California.
• Yosemite Fallsis a notable painting by Obata.
• It uses a Japanese method of black ink painting
called sumi-e.
• This painting was completed in 1930.
The student wants to indicate the year Yosemite Falls
was completed. Which choice most effectively uses
relevant information from the notes to accomplish
this goal?
A)While living in California, Obata created
black ink paintings.
B)Obata, a Japanese American artist, created a
notable painting.
C)Yosemite Fallswas completed in 1930.
D)Obata used a Japanese painting method called
sumi-e.
STOP
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this module only.
Do not turn to any other module in the test.
29
Module
2