Module
2
Reading and Writing
The questions in this section address a number of important reading and writing skills. Each
question includes one or more passages, which may include a table or graph. Read each passage
and question carefully, and then choose the best answer to the question based on the passage(s).
All questions in this section are multiple-choice with four answer choices. Each question has a
single best answer.
1
The following text is adapted from Elizabeth
von Arnim’s 1922 novel The Enchanted April.
Mrs. Wilkins and her friend Rose are traveling
in Italy.
“I’m going to have one of these gorgeous
oranges,” said Mrs. Wilkins, staying where she
was and <u>reaching across to</u> a black bowl piled
with them. “Rose, how can you resist them.
Look—have this one. Do have this beauty—”
And she held out a big one.
As used in the text, what does the phrase “reaching
across to” most nearly mean?
A) Joining with
B) Gaining on
C) Stretching toward
D) Arriving at
2
A team of paleontologists has found a rich fossil
deposit near Gulgong, Australia. The fossils are so
well preserved that the team has been able to
blank
detailed information about the life forms
that left them behind, such as color patterns and how
they interacted with other species.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) occupy
B) hoard
C) reserve
D) obtain
16

Module
2
3
According to a team of neuroeconomists from the
University of Zurich, ease of decision making may be
linked to communication between two brain regions,
the prefrontal cortex and the parietal cortex.
Individuals tend to be more decisive if the
information flow between the regions is intensified,
whereas they make choices more slowly when
information flow is blank
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) reduced
B) evaluated
C) determined
D) acquired
4
The War of 1812 has blank
place in historical
memory in Britain, partly because it is overshadowed
by the much larger concurrent conflict against
Napoleonic France and partly because it essentially
maintained the geopolitical status quo for Britain: the
country neither gained nor lost significant territory
or position as a result of its participation in the war.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) a tenuous
B) an enduring
C) a contentious
D) a conspicuous
5
Claims about the original significance of Minoan
bull-leaping rituals—depicted in paintings and
sculptures from the second millennium BCE—are
difficult to successfully blank
. We know so little
about the people archaeologists call the Minoans that
assertions about what bull-leaping meant to them
will almost inevitably rely on significant speculation
and guesswork.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical and precise word or phrase?
A) imagine
B) summarize
C) defend
D) adjust
17

Module
2
6
The following text is adapted from Jerome K.
Jerome’s 1889 novel Three Men in a Boat (To Say
Nothing of the Dog). The narrator is traveling by boat
with Harris and another friend.
[Harris] told us anecdotes of how he had gone
across the [English] Channel when it was so
rough that the passengers had to be tied into
their [beds], and he and the captain were the
only two living souls on board who were not ill.
Sometimes it was he and the second mate who
were not ill; but it was generally he and one other
man. <u>If not he and an
other man, then it was he by himself.</u>
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A) It indicates the reason for Harris’s eagerness to
resume traveling.
B) It hints at Harris’s feeling that during an earlier
boat trip, others didn’t include him in activities.
C) It emphasizes that Harris always boasts about his
own constitution when speaking of a previous
boat trip.
D) It reveals that although Harris claims to prefer
solitary activities when traveling, he actually
enjoys having company.
7
<u>Several studies have f
ound negligible electoral consequences for gover
nments that impose fiscal austerity measures, yet
some European governments recently suffered electoral
ly due to their austerity programs.</u> Evelyne Huebscher and colleagues
attribute this incongruity to governments’
tendency—not followed in the recent European
cases—to implement austerity programs strategically
to avoid electoral costs (e.g., setting spending cuts to
take effect only after the next election), which has
obscured the inherent political risks of austerity
measures in the election data scholars have
examined.
Which choice best describes the function of the
underlined sentence in the text as a whole?
A) It explains a discrepancy between what has been
observed in study settings and what has been
observed in real-world settings that the text goes
on to assert is attributable to the studies not
using real-world data.
B) It identifies a conflict between research findings
and recent events that the text goes on to suggest
is a consequence of a complicating factor in the
data used to generate those findings.
C) It presents a long-standing divergence in
research findings that the text goes on to say is
due to different groups of researchers using data
that derive from different electoral
circumstances.
D) It describes a recent exception to a general
pattern in research findings that the text goes on
to explain is a result of researchers
underestimating the significance of
inconsistencies in the data they’ve analyzed.
18

Module
2
8
Text 1
Graphic novels are increasingly popular in
bookstores and libraries, but they shouldn’t be
classified as literature. By definition, literature tells a
story or conveys meaning through language only;
graphic novels tell stories through illustrations and
use language only sparingly, in captions and
dialogue. Graphic novels are experienced as series of
images and not as language, making them more
similar to film than to literature.
Text 2
Graphic novels present their stories through both
language and images. Without captions and dialogue,
readers would be unable to understand what is
depicted in the illustrations: the story results from
the interaction of text and image. Moreover, Alison
Bechdel’s Fun Home and many other graphic novels
feature text that is as beautifully written as the prose
found in many standard novels. Therefore, graphic
novels qualify as literary texts.
Based on the texts, how would the author of Text 2
most likely respond to the overall argument
presented in Text 1?
A) By asserting that language plays a more
important role in graphic novels than the author
of Text 1 recognizes
B) By acknowledging that the author of Text 1 has
identified a flaw that is common to all graphic
novels
C) By suggesting that the story lines of certain
graphic novels are more difficult to understand
than the author of Text 1 claims
D) By agreeing with the author of Text 1 that most
graphic novels aren’t as well crafted as most
literary works are
9
The following text is adapted from Ann Petry’s
1946 novel The Street. Lutie lives in an apartment in
Harlem, New York.
The glow from the sunset was making the street
radiant. The street is nice in this light, [Lutie]
thought. It was swarming with children who
were playing ball and darting back and forth
across the sidewalk in complicated games of tag.
Girls were skipping double dutch rope, going
tirelessly through the exact center of a pair of
ropes, jumping first on one foot and then the
other.
©1946 by Ann Petry
Which choice best describes what is happening in
the text?
A) Lutie is observing the appearance of the street at
a particular time of day and the events occurring
on it.
B) Lutie is annoyed by the noise of children playing
games on her street.
C) Lutie is puzzled by the rules of certain children’s
games.
D) Lutie is spending time alone in her apartment
because she doesn’t want to interact with her
neighbors.
19

Module
2
10
Since its completion in 2014, Bosco Verticale
(Vertical Forest)—a pair of residential towers in
Milan, Italy, covered by vegetation—has become a
striking symbol of environmental sustainability in
architecture. Stefano Boeri intended his design,
which features balconies that are home to hundreds
of trees, to serve as a model for promoting urban
biodiversity. However, the concept has faced
skepticism: critics note that although the trees used
in Bosco Verticale were specifically cultivated for the
project, it’s too early to tell if they can thrive in this
unusual setting.
According to the text, why are some critics skeptical
of the concept behind Bosco Verticale?
A) Some essential aspects of Bosco Verticale’s
design are difficult to adapt to locations other
than Milan.
B) The plant life on Bosco Verticale ended up being
less varied than Boeri had envisioned it
would be.
C) The construction of Bosco Verticale was no less
environmentally damaging than the construction
of more conventional buildings is.
D) It is unclear whether Bosco Verticale can support
the plant life included in its design.
11
Many literary theorists distinguish between fabula, a
narrative’s content, and syuzhet, a narrative’s
arrangement and presentation of events. In the film
The Godfather Part II, the fabula is the story of the
Corleone family, and the syuzhet is the presentation
of the story as it alternates between two timelines in
1901 and 1958. But literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin
maintained that fabula and syuzhet are insufficient to
completely describe a narrative—he held that
systematic categorizations of artistic phenomena
discount the subtle way in which meaning is created
by interactions between the artist, the work, and the
audience.
Which choice best states the main idea of the text?
A) Literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin argued that
there are important characteristics of narratives
that are not fully encompassed by two concepts
that other theorists have used to analyze
narratives.
B) Literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin claimed that
meaning is not inherent in a narrative but is
created when an audience encounters a narrative
so that narratives are interpreted differently by
different people.
C) The storytelling methods used in The Godfather
Part II may seem unusually complicated, but
they can be easily understood when two concepts
from literary theory are utilized.
D) Narratives that are told out of chronological
order are more difficult for audiences to
understand than are narratives presented
chronologically.
20

"'
s::
.9
"' "' ·s
..0
;:I
"'
0
t-..
Q)
..0 s
;:I z
350
300
250
200
150
100
0
Total Science Research Submissions
by Topic, 2016-2019
n
/
I V-:••••( >······· ., ..
.... ---, J"---, .,.~
2016
2017
2018
2019
Year
---+-cellular and molecular biology
--0 -
physics and space science
···O·· medicine and health
animal science
Module
2
12
A student is researching the trends in the topics
submitted to a national science fair for high school
students. The graph shows the number of
submissions by topic that were made each year.
Based on the data in the graph, the student claims
that <u>there were more med
icine and health research topics submitted in 2019 than in any other year.</u>
Which choice most effectively uses data from the
graph to support the underlined claim?
A) In 2016, the number of cellular and molecular
biology topic submissions was the same as the
number of animal science topic submissions.
B) In 2019, there were more physics and space
science topic submissions than there were
medicine and health topic submissions.
C) The lowest number of animal science topic
submissions in a year was approximately 95
in 2016.
D) The highest number of medicine and health
topic submissions during the period shown is
approximately 285 in 2019.
13
Fish whose DNA has been modified to include
genetic material from other species are known as
transgenic. Some transgenic fish have genes from
jellyfish that result in fluorescence (that is, they glow
in the dark). Although these fish were initially
engineered for research purposes in the 1990s, they
were sold as pets in the 2000s and can now be found
in the wild in creeks in Brazil. A student in a biology
seminar who is writing a paper on these fish asserts
that their escape from Brazilian fish farms into the
wild may have significant negative long-term
ecological effects.
Which quotation from a researcher would best
support the student’s assertion?
A) “In one site in the wild where transgenic fish
were observed, females outnumbered males,
while in another the numbers of females and
males were equivalent.”
B) “Though some presence of transgenic fish in the
wild has been recorded, there are insufficient
studies of the impact of those fish on the
ecosystems into which they are introduced.”
C) “The ecosystems into which transgenic fish are
known to have been introduced may represent a
subset of the ecosystems into which the fish have
actually been introduced.”
D) “Through interbreeding, transgenic fish might
introduce the trait of fluorescence into wild fish
populations, making those populations more
vulnerable to predators.”
21

Modeled Radial Growth of
Sugar Maple Trees
Climate scenario
with nitrogen
without nitrogen
Module
2
14
Inés Ibáñez and colleagues studied a forest site in
which some sugar maple trees receive periodic
fertilization with nitrogen to mimic the broader
trend of increasing anthropogenic nitrogen
deposition in soil. Ibáñez and colleagues modeled the
radial growth of the trees with and without nitrogen
fertilization under three different climate scenarios
(the current climate, moderate change, and extreme
change). Although they found that climate change
would negatively affect growth, they concluded that
anthropogenic nitrogen deposition could more than
offset that effect provided that change is moderate
rather than extreme.
Which choice best describes data from the graph that
support Ibáñez and colleagues’ conclusion?
A) Growth with nitrogen under the current climate
exceeded growth with nitrogen under moderate
change, but the latter exceeded growth without
nitrogen under extreme change.
B) Growth without nitrogen under the current
climate exceeded growth without nitrogen under
moderate change, but the latter exceeded growth
with nitrogen under extreme change.
C) Growth with nitrogen under moderate change
exceeded growth without nitrogen under
moderate change, but the latter exceeded growth
without nitrogen under extreme change.
D) Growth with nitrogen under moderate change
exceeded growth without nitrogen under the
current climate, but the latter exceeded growth
with nitrogen under extreme change.
22

Module
2
15
“Poetry” is a 1919 poem by Marianne Moore. The
poem highlights an ambivalence toward poetry as the
speaker acknowledges its merits while also
expressing a sense of displeasure, writing blank

Which quotation from “Poetry” most effectively
illustrates the claim?
A) “nor is it valid / to discriminate against ‘business
documents and / school-books’; all these
phenomena are important.”
B) “One must make a distinction / however: when
dragged into prominence by half poets, the result
is not / poetry”
C) “when [poems] become so derivative as to
become unintelligible, the / same thing may be
said for all of us—that we / do not admire what /
we cannot understand.”
D) “Reading [poetry], however, with a perfect
contempt for it, one discovers that there is in / it
after all, a place for the genuine.”
23

Module
2
16
Simulated Change in Annual Aquifer Input and Irrigation Output if
Precipitation Concentration Increases as Climate Models Predict
Baseline concentration of
annual precipitation
% change in water
entering aquifers
% change in surface
water used for
irrigation
% change in
groundwater used
for irrigation
Precipitation is currently
somewhat concentrated
4.9
0.4
0.9
Precipitation is currently
evenly distributed
11.0
9.0
7.9
Some climate models for the western United States predict that while
total annual precipitation may remain unchanged from the present
level, precipitation will become concentrated into fewer but more
intense rain and snow events. University of Texas climate scientist
Geeta Persad and her colleagues simulated how the amount of water
entering aquifers and the amount being used for irrigation purposes
would change if this were to occur. Persad and her colleagues
concluded that concentration of precipitation into fewer events would
result in a higher number of dry days, triggering more irrigation, but
that this change in irrigation output is highly sensitive to the baseline
concentration of precipitation that currently exists in an area.
Which choice best describes data from the table that support Persad
and her colleagues’ conclusion?
A) If baseline precipitation is somewhat concentrated, the amount of
water being used for irrigation will increase 0.4% for surface water
and 0.9% for groundwater, whereas the amount of water entering
aquifers will increase 11.0% if baseline precipitation is evenly
distributed.
B) If baseline precipitation is somewhat concentrated, water use for
irrigation will increase only slightly, whereas it will increase 9.0%
for surface water and 7.9% for groundwater if baseline
precipitation is evenly distributed.
C) If baseline precipitation is somewhat concentrated, the amount of
water entering aquifers will increase 4.9%, while the amount being
used for irrigation will increase 0.4% for surface water and 0.9% for
groundwater.
D) If baseline precipitation is somewhat concentrated, water use for
irrigation will decline by a small amount, whereas it will increase
11.0% for surface water and 9.0% for groundwater if baseline
precipitation is evenly distributed.
24

Module
2
17
In dialects of English spoken in Scotland, the “r”
sound is strongly emphasized when it appears at the
end of syllables (as in “car”) or before other
consonant sounds (as in “bird”). English dialects of
the Upland South, a region stretching from
Oklahoma to western Virginia, place similar
emphasis on “r” at the ends of syllables and before
other consonant sounds. Historical records show that
the Upland South was colonized largely by people
whose ancestors came from Scotland. Thus, linguists
have concluded that blank

Which choice most logically completes the text?
A) the English dialects spoken in the Upland South
acquired their emphasis on the “r” sound from
dialects spoken in Scotland.
B) emphasis on the “r” sound will eventually spread
from English dialects spoken in the Upland
South to dialects spoken elsewhere.
C) the English dialects spoken in Scotland were
influenced by dialects spoken in the Upland
South.
D) people from Scotland abandoned their emphasis
on the “r” sound after relocating to the Upland
South.
18
How did whales, once no bigger than seals, evolve
to become the largest animals on Earth? Brazilian
biologist Mariana Nery believes the answer might be
found in whales’ DNA. In January 2023, Nery and
her colleagues blank  a study showing changes
over time in four whale genes associated with
body size.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) published
B) publishing
C) having published
D) to publish
19
A harpsichord may look just like a piano, but the
difference between the two instruments is easy to
hear. When a harpsichord’s keys are pressed, the
strings inside the blank  are plucked, not struck.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) instrument:
B) instrument
C) instrument—
D) instrument,
20
When they were first introduced to western Europe
from Byzantium in the eleventh century, table forks
were met with much resistance. The Bishop of Ostia,
St. Peter Damian, condemned the eating utensils
because he considered blank  dangerous and
unnecessary luxury items.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) them
B) this
C) that
D) it
21
Julia Alvarez’s 1994 novel In the Time of the
Butterflies, a fictionalized account of the lives of the
Mirabal blank  can serve as a starting point for
those wanting to explore how the rule of dictator
Rafael Trujillo has been represented in Dominican
American literature.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) sisters, and
B) sisters and
C) sisters,
D) sisters
25

Module
2
22
On March 23, 2021, a gust of wind wreaked havoc on
global trade. Ever Given, an international shipping
container vessel, became lodged in Egypt’s Suez
Canal, a major shipping route between Europe and
Asia. The vessel took six days to blank  it’s as
heavy as two thousand blue whales when fully
loaded.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) dislodge in part due to its sheer size,
B) dislodge, in part due to its sheer size:
C) dislodge, in part due to its sheer size,
D) dislodge, in part, due to its sheer size
23
Fans of the film Moana (2016) may not know that
the deep and humorous voice behind the
blank  belongs to comedian, actor, and musician
Jemaine Clement. The versatile performer has
appeared in everything from television commercials
to action movies, but voice acting, specifically, has
become a notable part of his career.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) character Tamatoa the crab
B) character Tamatoa the crab,
C) character: Tamatoa the crab,
D) character, Tamatoa the crab
24
In her 1983 book The Managed Heart:
Commercialization of Human Feeling, sociologist
Arlie Russell Hochschild first explored at length her
conception of a “sociology of emotions”—the idea
that the various cultural and ideological frameworks
a person has internalized (class, gender, political
affiliation, etc.) blank
each emotional reaction
that person has within a situation.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) underlies
B) is underlying
C) underlie
D) has been underlying
25
American abstract artist Richard blank  his
installations to make passersby keenly aware of how
one’s movements are affected by the physical features
of one’s environment, assembles large-scale steel
plates into sculptures that dominate the outdoor
spaces they occupy.
Which choice completes the text so that it conforms
to the conventions of Standard English?
A) Serra is intending
B) Serra, intends
C) Serra, intending
D) Serra intends
26

Module
2
26
In 1949, Frank Zamboni developed an ice rink
resurfacing machine. As Zamboni’s machine moved
along the rink’s surface, it first scraped off the top
layer of ice. blank
it sprayed water into the deep
grooves left behind by customers’ skates. Lastly, it
smoothed over the newly formed ice.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) For example,
B) Next,
C) Similarly,
D) In contrast,
27
In 2014, Nestor Gomez won his first-ever storytelling
competition, relating a tale about his life as a
Guatemalan immigrant living in Chicago. blank

in 2017, Gomez created the show 80 Minutes Around
the World as a platform for others to share stories
about their immigration experiences.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) Instead,
B) For example,
C) Later,
D) In other words,
28
To guarantee the validity of experimental results,
scientists rely on precise, unchanging standards of
measurement. blank  metrologists (scientists
who study measurement) developed the SI, or
International System of Units. The SI’s units of
measurement are based on unchanging values in
nature, such as the mass of an electron or the speed
of light.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) In contrast,
B) Regardless,
C) In addition,
D) For this reason,
29
In retrospect, one of the lessons of the 2003 Human
Genome Project is that a gene is affected by many
factors, not the least of which is its interactions with
the protein products of other genes. blank
rather
than just focusing on the human genome, efforts to
better understand gene mutations related to disease
have begun to consider the human proteome, the
complete set of proteins expressed by human genes.
Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition?
A) In other words,
B) That said,
C) For example,
D) Accordingly,
27

Module
2
30
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Iranian scholar Abu Rayhan al-Biruni studied
Earth’s physical features.
•He theorized that a large landmass existed west of
Europe and east of Asia.
•Al-Biruni published his landmass theory in
1037 CE.
The student wants to specify when al-Biruni
published his landmass theory. Which choice most
effectively uses relevant information from the notes
to accomplish this goal?
A) In 1037 CE, al-Biruni published his theory that a
large landmass existed west of Europe and east
of Asia.
B) Al-Biruni, who studied Earth’s physical features,
published a theory about a large landmass.
C) Al-Biruni was an Iranian scholar who studied
Earth’s physical features.
D) An Iranian scholar who studied Earth’s physical
features, al-Biruni theorized that a large
landmass existed west of Europe and east
of Asia.
31
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•In astronomy, the mass of stars can be described
in units called solar masses.
•One solar mass is roughly equal to the mass of
the Sun.
•The mass of the star Proxima Centauri is
0.122 solar masses.
•The mass of the star Sirius A is 2.063 solar masses.
The student wants to emphasize the mass of Sirius A.
Which choice most effectively uses relevant
information from the notes to accomplish this goal?
A) The mass of stars, like Proxima Centauri, can be
described in units called solar masses.
B) In astronomy, the mass of stars can be described
in units called solar masses, and one solar mass is
roughly equal to the mass of the Sun.
C) The Sun is more massive than Proxima Centauri,
which has a mass of 0.122 solar masses.
D) With a mass of 2.063 solar masses, Sirius A is
more massive than the Sun.
28

Module
2
32
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•A lever is a simple machine consisting of a rigid
beam and a fulcrum.
•The fulcrum is the point about which the beam
pivots.
•The input force (effort) is the force applied to the
lever.
•The output force (load) is the force that the lever
exerts on another object.
•In first-class levers, the fulcrum is located between
the effort and the load.
•In second-class levers, the load is located between
the effort and the fulcrum.
The student wants to contrast first-class levers and
second-class levers. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A) In levers, the effort is the force applied to the
lever; the load, in contrast, is the force that the
lever exerts on another object.
B) In first-class and second-class levers, the fulcrum
and the load are in different locations.
C) First-class levers are simple machines consisting
of a rigid beam and a fulcrum, but then again,
the same is true of second-class levers.
D) In first-class levers, the fulcrum is located
between the effort and the load, but in
second-class levers, the load is located between
the effort and the fulcrum.
33
While researching a topic, a student has taken the
following notes:
•Earthquakes start at a point called a “focus” and
spread out from there as seismic waves.
•The two types of seismic waves that travel beneath
Earth’s surface are primary waves (P waves) and
secondary waves (S waves).
•P waves travel more quickly beneath Earth’s
surface than do S waves.
•P waves compress and expand the ground, causing
it to move backward and forward.
•S waves cause the ground to move from side
to side.
The student wants to emphasize a similarity between
P waves and S waves. Which choice most effectively
uses relevant information from the notes to
accomplish this goal?
A) P waves and S waves both travel beneath Earth’s
surface, causing the ground to move.
B) P waves travel away from an earthquake’s
starting point at a higher rate of speed than do
S waves.
C) Spreading out from the focus of an earthquake,
P waves move the ground backward and
forward.
D) Although P waves and S waves start at the same
point, they behave very differently.
STOP
If you finish before time is called, you may check your work on this module only.
Do not turn to any other module in the test.
29